New article - Migrate from Newtonsoft.Json (#16225)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/serialization/system-text-json-migrate-from-newtonsoft-how-to.md

---
title: "Migrate from Newtonsoft.Json to System.Text.Json - .NET"
author: tdykstra
ms.author: tdykstra
ms.date: "12/20/2019"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "JSON serialization"
  - "serializing objects"
  - "serialization"
  - "objects, serializing"
---

# How to migrate from Newtonsoft.Json to System.Text.Json

This article shows how to migrate from [Newtonsoft.Json](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json) to [System.Text.Json](system-text-json-overview.md).

 `System.Text.Json` focuses primarily on performance, security, and standards compliance. It lacks built-in features to handle some common scenarios, and some default behaviors differ from `Newtonsoft.Json`. For some scenarios, `System.Text.Json` has no built-in functionality, but there are recommended workarounds. For other scenarios, workarounds are impractical. If your application depends on a missing feature that has no workaround, consider delaying your migration to `System.Text.Json`. 

<!-- For information about which features might be added in future releases, see the [Roadmap](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/tree/master/src/libraries/System.Text.Json/roadmap/README.md). [Restore this when the roadmap is updated.]-->

> Most of this article is about how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer> API, but it also includes guidance on how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument> Document Object Model (DOM) and the <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader> and <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter> API. The article is organized into sections in the following order:

Author: There's a bug in the docs build right now -- the links should be showing up fine in the internal review doc, and we won't by merging to live until the build is fixed.

> * Differences in default `System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer` behavior compared to `Newtonsoft.Json`.

Author: I kept all the section headings at h2 instead of h2s for each grouping with h3s under them, because h2 headings automatically show up in the right-side navigation menu, making it easy to scan for a particular scenario you're interested in.  But that is probably more confusing than helpful, so I'll go back to h3/h2.

> * Differences in default `System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer` behavior compared to `Newtonsoft.Json`.

Reviewer: Maybe add the headings with links as sort of a Table of Contents in the beginning (i.e. expand this bullet list with all the sub-sections). That can sort of substitute in for the R.H.S navigation menu but still keep the heading structure clear.

> * Differences in default `System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer` behavior compared to `Newtonsoft.Json`.

Author: >Is there no way to configure what shows up in the navigation menu?

😢 No, but there's an outstanding feature request.

Manually making a sub-TOC for each h2 section is feasible, but it has to be manually maintained and over time can get out of sync if updates are missed.

* [Utf8JsonReader and Utf8JsonWriter](#utf8jsonreader-and-utf8jsonwriter).
* [JsonDocument](#jsondocument).

## Case-insensitive deserialization 

During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` does case-insensitive property name matching by default. The `System.Text.Json` default is case-sensitive, which gives better performance. For information about how to do case-insensitive matching, see [Case-insensitive property matching](system-text-json-how-to.md#case-insensitive-property-matching).

If you're using `System.Text.Json` indirectly by using ASP.NET Core, you don't need to do anything to get behavior like `Newtonsoft.Json`. ASP.NET Core specifies the case-insensitive setting when it uses `System.Text.Json`.

## Comments

During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` ignores comments in the JSON by default. The `System.Text.Json` default is to throw exceptions for comments because the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification doesn't include them. For information about how to allow comments, see [Allow comments and trailing commas](system-text-json-how-to.md#allow-comments-and-trailing-commas).

## Trailing commas

> During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` ignores trailing commas by default. In some cases, it ignores multiple trailing commas (for example, `[{"Color":"Red"},{"Color":"Green"},,]`). The `System.Text.Json` default is to throw exceptions for trailing commas because the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification doesn't include them. For information about how to allow trailing commas, see [Allow comments and trailing commas](system-text-json-how-to.md#allow-comments-and-trailing-commas). There's no way to allow multiple trailing commas.

Reviewer: Why qualify with `In some cases,`?
```suggestion
During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` ignores trailing commas by default. It also ignores multiple trailing commas (for example, `[{"Color":"Red"},{"Color":"Green"},,]`). The `System.Text.Json` default is to throw exceptions for trailing commas because the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification doesn't include them. For information about how to allow trailing commas, see [Allow comments and trailing commas](system-text-json-how-to.md#allow-comments-and-trailing-commas). There's no way to allow multiple trailing commas.
```

Author: >Why qualify with In some cases,?

I found that in some cases (depending on what an array was composed of) Newtonsoft wouldn't accept multiple trailing commas. But it won't hurt to remove that clause here.

## Converter registration precedence

The `Newtonsoft.Json` registration precedence for custom converters is as follows:

* Attribute on property
* Attribute on type
* `Converters` collection

This order means that a custom converter in the `Converters` collection is overridden by a converter that is registered by applying an attribute at the type level. Both of those registrations are overridden by an attribute at the property level.

The `System.Text.Json` registration precedence for custom converters is different:

* Attribute on property
* `Converters` collection
* Attribute on type

The difference here is that a custom converter in the `Converters` collection overrides an attribute at the type level. The intention behind this order of precedence is to make run-time changes override design-time choices. There's no way to change the precedence.

## `Newtonsoft.Json` [JsonProperty] attribute

> `Newtonsoft.Json` has a `[JsonProperty]` attribute that is used for a variety of functions. `System.Text.Json` has single-purpose attributes instead of a multi-purpose attribute. The following attributes serve purposes similar to some of the `Newtonsoft.Json` attribute functions:

Reviewer: This was never an explicit design decision (single-purpose vs multi-purpose), and it just happens to be that the current attributes are single purpose. We could extend them in the future, or add new ones that are multi-purpose.

I don't think this fits into the "compare defaults" section and I would remove or re-word and move to the other "workarounds" section.

Author: I'll remove it, as there are already sections devoted to each function that STJ doesn't have.

* [[JsonPropertyName]](system-text-json-how-to.md#customize-individual-property-names)
* [[JsonConverter]](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#register-a-custom-converter)

Other functions of the `Newtonsoft.Json` `[JsonProperty]` attribute have no equivalent attribute in `System.Text.Json`. For some of those functions, there are other ways to accomplish the same purpose, as detailed in the following sections of this article.

> ## Character escaping

Reviewer: Mention default `MaxDepth` settings (for both read/write).

For reading, default for S.T.Json is 64 (newtonsoft doesn't have a limit by default).

> During serialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` is relatively permissive about letting characters through without escaping them. (That is, it doesn't replace them with `\uxxxx` where `xxxx` is the Unicode code of the character.) `System.Text.Json` escapes more characters by default to provide defense-in-depth protections against cross-site scripting (XSS) or information disclosure attacks. `System.Text.Json` escapes all non-ASCII characters by default, so you don't need to do anything if you're using `StringEscapeHandling.EscapeNonAscii`. For information about how to override the default `System.Text.Json` behavior, see [Customize character encoding](system-text-json-how-to.md#customize-character-encoding).

Reviewer: - Unicode code of the character -> character's code point
- Removed the brackets around second sentence and added a bit more detail.
- Add info that S.T.J escapes html sensitive characters too

```suggestion
During serialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` is relatively permissive about letting characters through without escaping them. That is, it doesn't replace them with `\uxxxx` (where `xxxx` is the character's code point), and where it does escape them, it does so by emitting a `\` before the character (for example, `"` becomes `\"`). `System.Text.Json` escapes more characters by default to provide defense-in-depth protections against cross-site scripting (XSS) or information disclosure attacks and does so by using the six-character sequence. `System.Text.Json` escapes all non-ASCII characters by default, so you don't need to do anything if you're using `StringEscapeHandling.EscapeNonAscii`. It also escapes HTML sensitive characters, by default. For information about how to override the default `System.Text.Json` behavior, see [Customize character encoding](system-text-json-how-to.md#customize-character-encoding).
```

> 

Reviewer: Another default behavior that is worth mentioning is deserialization of `System.Object` properties in POCOs and including `Dictionary<string, object>`.

For "primitive" values, Newtonsoft.Json "guesses" the type and stores string/long/double/boolean as a boxed `object` when deserializing, and `JObject` for "complex" values in the JSON payload. It stores `null` when the payload has "null" in it.

S.T.Json stores a boxed `JsonElement` for "primitive" and "complex" values within the `System.Object` property or dictionary value. It stores `null` when the payload has "null" in it.

Here's a potential workaround (at least for the primitives):
https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/38713#issuecomment-535166692

Author: I have those in the workaround section rather than here because these sections were intended to be differences in default behavior that no workaround was necessary for, i.e., built-in functionality could get you to Newtonsoft.Json behavior.   To make this now a more general default-differences section, I'll add sections for these and point forward to the workaround how-to sections.

Author: On second thought I'll just bring the workaround back to this section and eliminate the other section.

## Specify date format

> `Newtonsoft.Json` provides a `DateTimeZoneHandling` option that lets you specify the serialization format used for `DateTime` and `DateTimeOffset` properties. In `System.Text.Json`, the only format that has built-in support is ISO 8601-1:2019. To use any other format, create a custom converter. For more information, see [DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json](../datetime/system-text-json-support.md).

Reviewer: We should also mention `DateFormatString` here since that is folks would use when parsing non-ISO dates with `Newtonsoft.Json:
https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonSerializerSettings_DateFormatString.htm

`DateTimeZoneHandling` is more about how the datetime is serialized/deserialized when the JSON strings are according to ISO. 

We should take some inspiration from https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/DatesInJSON.htm

> ## Quoted numbers

Reviewer: Should we mention that S.T.Json has async read/write from/to stream, potentially with workarounds for sync read/writes?

Author: How does that relate to Newtonsoft/ how do we differ from Newtonsoft in that respect?

Reviewer: `Newtonsoft.Json` has **only** synchronous APIs to read/write from a stream via `JsonTextReader`/`JsonTextWriter`.

`System.Text.Json` has **only** asynchronous APIs to read/write from a stream via statics on `JsonSerializer`.

What happens when someone wants to read/write synchronously from/to a stream and users want to port existing code that looks like this?
https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/SerializingJSON.htm
```C#
Product product = new Product();
product.ExpiryDate = new DateTime(2008, 12, 28);

JsonSerializer serializer = new JsonSerializer();
serializer.Converters.Add(new JavaScriptDateTimeConverter());
serializer.NullValueHandling = NullValueHandling.Ignore;

using (StreamWriter sw = new StreamWriter(@"c:\json.txt"))
using (JsonWriter writer = new JsonTextWriter(sw))
{
    serializer.Serialize(writer, product);
    // {"ExpiryDate":new Date(1230375600000),"Price":0}
}
```

Author: How do we want to present this:  as an h3 section in the different-default-behavior  h2 section mentioning that if they use a stream they have to change to async code?  Or suggest some other approach?

Reviewer: > as an h3 section in the different-default-behavior

We could do this, but since this is API difference, it doesn't fit well with the other "default behavior" headings.

I would put it as an h3 under "Scenarios using JsonSerializer that require workarounds"
Something like:
Serializing and deserializing to and from stream synchronously

The content would be something like the following:
- the built-in apis support async only and is the recommended pattern for heavy IO work, if possible
- for sync, if necessary, here are the potential workarounds (write to writer, push to stream, read data from stream and and pass to deserializer).
- support for > 2 GB payload synchronously is harder to do.

Author: Can you point me to code samples for each of the three workarounds? Or just a rough idea of what the code looks like and I'll implement it in the samples project.

### Read with multi-segment ReadOnlySequence

If your JSON input is a `ReadOnlySpan<byte>`, each JSON element can be accessed from the `ValueSpan` property on the reader as you go through the read loop. However, if your input is a `ReadOnlySequence<byte>` (which is the result of reading from a `PipeReader`), some JSON elements might straddle multiple segments of the `ReadOnlySequence<byte>` object. These elements would not be accessible from `ValueSpan` in a contiguous memory block. Instead, whenever you have a multi-segment `ReadOnlySequence<byte>` as input, you should always poll the `HasValueSequence` property on the reader to figure out how to access the current JSON element. Here's a recommended pattern:

```csharp
while (reader.Read())
{
  switch (reader.TokenType)
  {
    // ...
    ReadOnlySpan<byte> jsonElement = reader.HasValueSequence ?
                reader.ValueSequence.ToArray() :
                reader.ValueSpan;
    // ...
  }
}
```

> ### Read and write with UTF-8 text

Reviewer: We should provide a workaround for `writer.WriteRawValue`
https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/M_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonWriter_WriteRaw.htm
https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/M_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonWriter_WriteRawValue.htm

One workaround is:
```C#
using JsonDocument doc = JsonDocument.Parse(string);
doc.WriteTo(writer);
```

* Don't pass in the options object when recursively calling `Serialize` or `Deserialize`. The options object contains the `Converters` collection. If you pass it in to `Serialize` or `Deserialize`, the converter will be used, making an infinite loop that results in a stack overflow exception.

## Scenarios that JsonSerializer currently doesn't support

Workarounds may be possible for some of the following scenarios, but they would be relatively difficult or impractical to implement.

### Types without built-in support

`System.Text.Json` doesn't provide built-in support for the following types:

* <xref:System.Data.DataTable> and related types
* F# types, such as [discriminated unions](../../fsharp/language-reference/discriminated-unions.md), [record types](../../fsharp/language-reference/records.md), and [anonymous record types](../../fsharp/language-reference/anonymous-records.md).
* Collection types in the <xref:System.Collections.Specialized> namespace
* <xref:System.Dynamic.ExpandoObject>
* <xref:System.TimeZoneInfo>
* <xref:System.Numerics.BigInteger>
* <xref:System.TimeSpan>

> * <xref:System.DBNull>

Reviewer 2: FWIW here's an example: https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/418#issuecomment-564739216

`System.Text.Json` supports only serialization by value.

### System.Runtime.Serialization attributes

`System.Text.Json` doesn't support attributes from the `System.Runtime.Serialization` namespace, such as `DataMemberAttribute` and `IgnoreDataMemberAttribute`.

### Octal numbers

`Newtonsoft.Json` treats numbers with a leading zero as octal numbers. `System.Text.Json` doesn't allow leading zeroes because the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification doesn't allow them.

### Type name handling

`Newtonsoft.Json` has a `TypeNameHandling` setting that adds type name metadata to the JSON while serializing, and it uses the metadata while deserializing. `System.Text.Json` lacks this feature.

### Populate existing objects

The `Newtonsoft.Json` `JsonConvert.PopulateObject` method deserializes a JSON document to an existing instance of a class, instead of creating a new instance. `System.Text.Json` always creates a new instance of the target type by using the default parameterless constructor.

### Reuse rather than replace properties

> The `Newtonsoft.Json` `ObjetCreationHandling` setting lets you specify that objects in properties should be reused rather than replaced during deserialization. `System.Text.Json` always replaces objects in properties.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Newtonsoft.Json` `ObjectCreationHandling` setting lets you specify that objects in properties should be reused rather than replaced during deserialization. `System.Text.Json` always replaces objects in properties.
```

For a code example, see [Use JsonDocument for access to data](system-text-json-how-to.md#use-jsondocument-for-access-to-data).

## Utf8JsonReader and Utf8JsonWriter

<xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader?displayProperty=fullName> is a high-performance, low allocation, forward-only reader for UTF-8 encoded JSON text, read from a `ReadOnlySpan<byte>`. The `Utf8JsonReader` is a low-level type that can be used to build custom parsers and deserializers.

<xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter?displayProperty=fullName> is a high-performance way to write UTF-8 encoded JSON text from common .NET types like `String`, `Int32`, and `DateTime`. The writer is a low-level type that can be used to build custom serializers.

The following sections explain recommended programming patterns for using `Utf8JsonReader` and `Utf8JsonWriter`.

### Ref structs

> The `Utf8JsonReader` and `Utf8JsonWriter` types are *ref structs*, which means they have certain limitations. For example, they can't be stored as a field on a class or struct other than a ref struct. To achieve high performance, these types must be `ref structs` since they need to cache the input or output `Span<byte>`, which itself is a ref struct. In addition, these types are mutable since they hold state. Therefore, you should **pass them by ref** rather than by value. Passing them by value would result in a struct copy and the state changes would not be visible to the caller. This differs from `Newtonsoft.Json` since the `Newtonsoft.Json` `JsonTextReader` and `JsonTextWriter` are classes. For more information about how to use ref structs, see [Write safe and efficient C# code](../../csharp/write-safe-efficient-code.md).

Reviewer 2: `Utf8JsonWriter` is a class. cc @ahsonkhan

* Returns the stored complex values as a `JObject` or `JArray`. *Complex values* are collections of JSON key-value pairs within braces (`{}` ) or lists of values within brackets (`[]`). The properties and values within the braces or brackets can have additional properties or values.
* Returns a `null` reference when the payload has the `null` JSON literal.

`System.Text.Json` stores a boxed `JsonElement` for both primitive and complex values within the `System.Object` property or dictionary value. However, it treats `null` the same as `Newtonsoft.Json` and returns a null reference when the payload has the `null` JSON literal in it.

To implement type inference for `Object` properties, create a converter like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#deserialize-inferred-types-to-object-properties).

### Maximum depth

`Newtonsoft.Json` doesn't have a maximum depth limit. For `System.Text.Json` there's a default limit  of 64, and it's configurable by setting (xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.MaxDepth?displayProperty=nameWithType).

> ## Scenarios using JsonSerializer that require workarounds

Reviewer: I don't have a sample yet, but we add a workaround for supporting reading multiple json payloads while streaming. Can you file a doc issue to track this and we can revisit it later?

Something like:
https://github.com/JamesNK/Newtonsoft.Json/issues/2125
https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/39843

```C#
public class TestingClass
{
    public string MyString { get; set; }
}

var stringReader = new StringReader("{\"MyString\": \"hi\"}, {\"MyString\":\"Another payload\"}");

var jsonTextReader = new JsonTextReader(stringReader)
{
    SupportMultipleContent = true
};

var jsonSerializer = new Newtonsoft.Json.JsonSerializer();

// {"MyString":"hi"}
Console.WriteLine(JsonConvert.SerializeObject(jsonSerializer.Deserialize<TestingClass>(jsonTextReader))); 

jsonTextReader.Read();

// {"MyString":"Another payload"}
Console.WriteLine(JsonConvert.SerializeObject(jsonSerializer.Deserialize<TestingClass>(jsonTextReader))); 
```

Author: I already have that scenario tracked in #15805, I'll add a link there to this comment.

### Specify date format

`Newtonsoft.Json` provides a `DateTimeZoneHandling` option that lets you specify the serialization format used for `DateTime` and `DateTimeOffset` properties. In `System.Text.Json`, the only format that has built-in support is ISO 8601-1:2019 since it is widely adopted, unambiguous, and makes round trips precisely. To use any other format, create a custom converter. For more information, see [DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json](../datetime/system-text-json-support.md).

### Quoted numbers

`Newtonsoft.Json` can serialize or deserialize numbers represented by JSON strings (surrounded by quotes). For example, it can accept: `{ "DegreesCelsius":"23" }` instead of `{ "DegreesCelsius":23 }`. To enable that behavior in `System.Text.Json`, implement a custom converter like the following example. The converter handles properties defined as `long`:

* It serializes them as JSON strings. 
* It accepts JSON numbers and numbers within quotes while deserializing.

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/LongToStringConverter.cs)]

> Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-property) on individual `long` properties or by [adding the converter to the `Converters` collection](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection).

Reviewer: Should we link to the `Converters` API instead here rather than the doc?

I would think some of these samples would actually end up in the API docs too, no? Maybe we update the link once this doc also has a copy of the sample usage?
Here: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.json.jsonserializeroptions.converters?view=netcore-3.1

Reviewer: > Should we link to the `Converters` API instead here rather than the doc?

On second thought, looks like we have this text all over the place. Pointing to the doc is fine.

What about including both links?

```suggestion
Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-property) on individual `long` properties or by [adding the converter](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection) to the [`Converters`](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.json.jsonserializeroptions.converters?view=netcore-3.1) collection.
```

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/WeatherForecastRequiredPropertyConverter.cs)]

Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-type) on the POCO class or by [adding the converter to the `Converters` collection](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection).

If you follow this pattern, don't pass in the options object when recursively calling `Serialize` or `Deserialize`. The options object contains the `Converters` collection. If you pass it in to `Serialize` or `Deserialize`, the custom converter calls into itself, making an infinite loop that results in a stack overflow exception. If the default options are not feasible, create a new instance of the options with the settings that you need. This approach will be slow since each new instance caches independently.

This is a simplified example. Additional logic would be required if you need to handle attributes (such as `[JsonIgnore]`) or different options (such as custom encoders).

> ### Deserialize null to non-nullable type 

Reviewer: I think the serialization scenario is more useful here, where `null` properties are not written out. Add an example for that/update the converter sample to include that (maybe with the nullable type properties like `string Summary`).

Also, it would be good to add a note that this workaround does overwrite the custom "default" value the user might set during deserialization which is different from what `NullValueHandling.Ignore` does (i.e. doesn't touch the property at all, so the original value the user may have set remains as is).

```C#
public class TestingClass
{
    public DateTimeOffset MyDate { get; set; } = new DateTime(2001, 01, 01);
}

var customOptions = new JsonSerializerOptions();
customOptions.Converters.Add(new DateTimeOffsetNullHandlingConverter());
Console.WriteLine(JsonSerializer.Serialize<TestingClass>(JsonSerializer.Deserialize<TestingClass>("{\"MyDate\": null}", customOptions), customOptions));
// S.T.Json: {"MyDate":"0001-01-01T00:00:00+00:00"}

var customSettings = new JsonSerializerSettings { NullValueHandling = NullValueHandling.Ignore };
Console.WriteLine(JsonConvert.SerializeObject(JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<TestingClass>("{\"MyDate\": null}", customSettings), customSettings));
// Newtonsoft.Json: {"MyDate":"2001-01-01T00:00:00-08:00"}
```

Author: > where null properties are not written out ... update the converter sample to include that (maybe with the nullable type properties like string Summary).

That's a different scenario -- this one is about avoiding exceptions for null values, while by default you don't get an exception for missing properties, you get the default value without implementing a custom converter. Wouldn't Newtonsoft do the same thing for missing properties?

Reviewer: > That's a different scenario

That's fair. I read this scenario more around `NullValueHandling.Ignore` usage and what you have to do with S.T.Json if you had that enum before. I can see that being more useful during **serialization** where properties that are set to null are not emitted. 
Adding it as a separate scenario from the one that avoids an exception is fine, but we should still mention it (see example here: https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_NullValueHandling.htm).

> Wouldn't Newtonsoft do the same thing for missing properties?

I don't understand the question. What are you referring to? Missing properties is different from null properties.

Author: I read your opening sentence in this comment thread as being about how deserialization would handle missing properties instead of null properties. Since STJ leaves properties alone if there's nothing in the JSON for them, they keep their constructor-set values, which matches what Newtonsoft does, right?

Reviewer: > Since STJ leaves properties alone if there's nothing in the JSON for them, they keep their constructor-set values, which matches what Newtonsoft does, right?

Yes. You are correct.

> I read your opening sentence in this comment thread as being about how deserialization would handle missing properties instead of null properties.

Ah, I see. Gotcha. I was referring to **serialization**/writing. Thanks for clarifying.

Author: So should we add a section explaining that Newtonsoft omits properties if NullValueHandling is set to Ignore, and the equivalent setting that does the same thing in STJ is IgnoreNullValues -- or is there another serialization difference here that I'm missing?

Reviewer: > So should we add a section explaining that Newtonsoft omits properties if NullValueHandling is set to Ignore, and the equivalent setting that does the same thing in STJ is IgnoreNullValues

> or is there another serialization difference here that I'm missing?

Nope, that is it.

`Newtonsoft.Json` doesn't throw an exception in the following scenario:

> * `NullValueHandling` is set to `Ignore`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `NullValueHandling` is set to `Ignore`, and
```

* During deserialization, the JSON contains a null value for a non-nullable type.

In the same scenario, `System.Text.Json` does throw an exception. (The corresponding null handling setting is <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.IgnoreNullValues?displayProperty=nameWithType>.)

If you own the target type, the easiest workaround is to make the property in question nullable (for example, change `int` to `int?`).

Another workaround is to make a converter for the type, such as the following example that handles null values for `DateTimeOffset` types:

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/DateTimeOffsetNullHandlingConverter.cs)]

Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-property) on the property or by [adding the converter to the `Converters` collection](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection).

### Deserialize to immutable classes and structs

> `Newtonsoft.Json` can deserialize to immutable classes and structs because it can use constructors that have parameters. `System.Text.Json` supports only parameterless constructors. As a workaround, you can call a constructor with parameters in a custom converter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Newtonsoft.Json` can deserialize to immutable classes and structs because it can use constructors that have parameters. `System.Text.Json` supports only public parameterless constructors. As a workaround, you can call a constructor with parameters in a custom converter.
```

Register this custom converter by [adding the converter to the `Converters` collection](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection).

For an example of a similar converter that handles open generic properties, see the [built-in converter for key-value pairs](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/master/src/libraries/System.Text.Json/src/System/Text/Json/Serialization/Converters/JsonValueConverterKeyValuePair.cs).

### Specify constructor to use

The `Newtonsoft.Json` `[JsonConstructor]` attribute lets you specify which constructor to call when deserializing to a POCO. `System.Text.Json` supports only parameterless constructors. As a workaround, you can call whichever constructor you need in a custom converter. See the example for [Deserialize to immutable classes and structs](#deserialize-to-immutable-classes-and-structs).

### Conditionally ignore a property

`Newtonsoft.Json` has several ways to conditionally ignore a property on serialization or deserialization:

* `DefaultContractResolver` lets you select properties to include or exclude, based on arbitrary criteria. 

> * The `NullValueHandling` and `DefaultValueHandling` setting on `JsonSerializerOptions` lets you specify that all null-value or default-value properties should be ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `NullValueHandling` and `DefaultValueHandling` setting on `JsonSerializerSettings` lets you specify that all null-value or default-value properties should be ignored.
```

* The `NullValueHandling` and `DefaultValueHandling` setting on `[JsonProperty]` attribute lets you specify individual properties that should be ignored when set to null or default value.

`System.Text.Json` provides the following ways to omit properties while serializing:

* The [[JsonIgnore]](system-text-json-how-to.md#exclude-individual-properties) attribute on a property causes the property to be omitted from the JSON during serialization.

> * The [IgnoreNullValues](system-text-json-how-to.md#exclude-all-null-value-properties) global option lets you exclude all null-value properties.

Reviewer: And `IgnoreReadOnlyProperties` global option.

> These options don't let you:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These options **don't** let you:
```

This approach requires additional logic if:

* The POCO includes complex properties.
* You need to handle attributes such as `[JsonIgnore]` or options such as custom encoders.

### Callbacks

`Newtonsoft.Json` lets you execute custom code at several points in the serialization or deserialization process:

* OnDeserializing (when beginning to deserialize an object)
* OnDeserialized (when finished deserializing an object)
* OnSerializing (when beginning to serialize an object)
* OnSerialized (when finished serializing an object)

In `System.Text.Json`, you can simulate callbacks by writing a custom converter. The following example shows a custom converter for a POCO. The converter includes code that displays a message at each point that corresponds to a `Newtonsoft.Json` callback.

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/WeatherForecastCallbacksConverter.cs)]

Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-type) on the class or by [adding the converter to the `Converters` collection](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection).

> If you use a custom converter that follows this example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a custom converter that follows the above sample:
```

author: tdykstra
ms.author: tdykstra
ms.date: "12/20/2019"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "JSON serialization"
  - "serializing objects"
  - "serialization"
  - "objects, serializing"
---

# How to migrate from Newtonsoft.Json to System.Text.Json

This article shows how to migrate from [Newtonsoft.Json](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json) to [System.Text.Json](system-text-json-overview.md).

 `System.Text.Json` focuses primarily on performance, security, and standards compliance. It has some key differences in default behavior and doesn't aim to have feature parity with `Newtonsoft.Json`. For some scenarios, `System.Text.Json` has no built-in functionality, but there are recommended workarounds. For other scenarios, workarounds are impractical. If your application depends on a missing feature, consider [filing an issue](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/new) to find out if support for your scenario can be added.

<!-- For information about which features might be added in future releases, see the [Roadmap](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/tree/master/src/libraries/System.Text.Json/roadmap/README.md). [Restore this when the roadmap is updated.]-->

> Most of this article is about how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer> API, but it also includes guidance on how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument> Document Object Model (DOM) and the <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader> and <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter> API. The article is organized into sections in the following order:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of this article is about how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer> API, but it also includes guidance on how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument> (which represents the Document Object Model or DOM), the <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader> and the <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter> types. The article is organized into sections in the following order:
```

* [Differences in **default** JsonSerializer behavior compared to Newtonsoft.Json](#differences-in-default-behavior).
* [Scenarios using JsonSerializer that require workarounds](#scenarios-using-jsonserializer-that-require-workarounds).
* [Scenarios that JsonSerializer currently doesn't support](#scenarios-that-jsonserializer-currently-doesnt-support).
* [JsonDocument](#jsondocument).

> * [Utf8JsonReader](#utf8jsonreader).

Reviewer: It's a bit awkward to have periods at the end of single words.

Maybe we make the headings more descriptive (or remove the period). I can come up with a suggestions once I get to those sections.

* [Utf8JsonWriter](#utf8jsonwriter).

> ## Differences in default behavior

Reviewer: Make heading match the list above?

```suggestion
## Differences in default JsonSerializer behavior compared to Newtonsoft.Json
```

Author: I was thinking that would be unnecessarily long and what it refers to would be clear in context, especially immediately following the list which contains the extended description.  Also, in general the style guidance is to try to make h2 headings be short enough so they don't wrap. That said,  it's often impossible to keep h2's from wrapping and still keep them intelligible, and with the revised structure the number of h2's is limited, so I'll go with the longer form.

`System.Text.Json` is strict by default and avoids any guessing or interpretation on the caller's behalf, emphasizing deterministic behavior. The library is intentionally designed this way for performance and security. `Newtonsoft.Json` is flexible by default.

### Case-insensitive deserialization 

> During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` does case-insensitive property name matching by default. The `System.Text.Json` default is case-sensitive, which gives better performance. For information about how to do case-insensitive matching, see [Case-insensitive property matching](system-text-json-how-to.md#case-insensitive-property-matching).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` does case-insensitive property name matching by default. The `System.Text.Json` default is case-sensitive, which gives better performance since it's doing an exact match. For information about how to do case-insensitive matching, see [Case-insensitive property matching](system-text-json-how-to.md#case-insensitive-property-matching).
```

### Character escaping

During serialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` is relatively permissive about letting characters through without escaping them. (That is, it doesn't replace them with `\uxxxx` where `xxxx` is the character's code point). Where it does escape them, it does so by emitting a `\` before the character (for example, `"` becomes `\"`). `System.Text.Json` escapes more characters by default to provide defense-in-depth protections against cross-site scripting (XSS) or information-disclosure attacks and does so by using the six-character sequence. `System.Text.Json` escapes all non-ASCII characters by default, so you don't need to do anything if you're using `StringEscapeHandling.EscapeNonAscii` in `Newtonsoft.Json`. `System.Text.Json` also escapes HTML-sensitive characters, by default. For information about how to override the default `System.Text.Json` behavior, see [Customize character encoding](system-text-json-how-to.md#customize-character-encoding).

> ### Deserialization of Object properties

Reviewer: What's the casing rules for headings?

```suggestion
### Deserialization of object properties
```

Author: In general headings get sentence casing.  In this case the reference is to the `Object` type, but we don't apply code style in link text.

When `Newtonsoft.Json` deserializes to `Object` properties in POCOs or in dictionaries of type `Dictionary<string, Object>`, it:

* "Guesses" the type of "primitive" values in the JSON and stores `string`/`long`/`double`/`boolean`/`DateTime` as a boxed object.
* Stores "complex" values as `JObject`.
* Stores `null` when the payload has "null".

`System.Text.Json` stores a boxed `JsonElement` for "primitive" and "complex" values within the System.Object property or dictionary value. It stores `null` when the payload has "null" in it.

To implement type inference for `Object` properties, create a converter like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#deserialize-inferred-types-to-object-properties).

### Maximum depth

`Newtonsoft.Json` doesn't have a maximum depth limit. For `System.Text.Json` there's a default limit  of 64, and it's configurable by setting (xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.MaxDepth?displayProperty=nameWithType).

## Scenarios using JsonSerializer that require workarounds

> The following scenarios aren't supported by built-in functionality, but sample code is provided for workarounds.

Reviewer: We should mention that most workarounds require writing custom converters up front here since that seems to be the common theme.

### Specify date format

`Newtonsoft.Json` provides a `DateTimeZoneHandling` option that lets you specify the serialization format used for `DateTime` and `DateTimeOffset` properties. In `System.Text.Json`, the only format that has built-in support is ISO 8601-1:2019. To use any other format, create a custom converter. For more information, see [DateTime and DateTimeOffset support in System.Text.Json](../datetime/system-text-json-support.md).

### Quoted numbers

> `Newtonsoft.Json` can serialize or deserialize numbers in quotes. For example, it can accept: `{ "DegreesCelsius":"23" }` instead of `{ "DegreesCelsius":23 }`. To enable that behavior in `System.Text.Json`, implement a custom converter like the following example, which uses quotes for properties defined as `long`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Newtonsoft.Json` can serialize or deserialize numbers represented by JSON strings (i.e. surrounded by quotes). For example, it can accept: `{ "DegreesCelsius":"23" }` instead of `{ "DegreesCelsius":23 }`. To enable that behavior in `System.Text.Json`, implement a custom converter like the following example, which writes properties defined as `long` as JSON strings and accepts both JSON numbers and numbers within quotes while reading.
```

Reviewer: We probably want to specify some other details like how to deal with decimal numbers, and things of different formats like scientific notation/etc.

Showing something that uses `StandardFormat` with the `Utf8Parser` would be helpful.

Author: I can make or find a decimal converter.  Can you provide code for scientific notation, other formats, and something that uses StandardFormat with the Utf8Parser?

 I'm not so sure about scientific notation.

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/LongToStringConverter.cs)]

> [Register this custom converter](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#register-a-custom-converter) by using an attribute on individual `long` properties or by adding the converter to the `Converters` collection.

Reviewer: Link `Converters` to https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.json.jsonserializeroptions.converters?view=netcore-3.1

### Dictionary with non-string key

`Newtonsoft.Json` supports collections of type `Dictionary<TKey, TValue>`. The built-in support for dictionary collections in `System.Text.Json` is limited to `Dictionary<string, TValue>`. That is, the key must be a string.

To support a dictionary with an integer or some other type as the key, create a converter like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#support-dictionary-with-non-string-key).

### Polymorphic deserialization

> `Newtonsoft.Json` provides attributes that specify how to handle polymorphic deserialization scenarios. `System.Text.Json` doesn't provide such attributes. `System.Text.Json` can do [polymorphic serialization](system-text-json-how-to.md#serialize-properties-of-derived-classes) but not polymorphic deserialization or conversion of the same data in both directions.

Reviewer: Question: Which attribute does `Newtonsoft.Json` provide for this?

Author: My mistake, apparently the attributes I had read about aren't part of Newtonsoft.  This section should refer instead to type name handling.

To support polymorphic deserialization, create a converter like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#support-polymorphic-deserialization).

### Required properties

During deserialization, `System.Text.Json` doesn't throw an exception if no value is received in the JSON for one of the properties of the target type. For example, if you have a `WeatherForecast` class:

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/WeatherForecast.cs?name=SnippetWF)]

The following JSON is deserialized without error:

```json
{
    "TemperatureCelsius": 25,
    "Summary": "Hot"
}
```

To make deserialization fail if no `Date` property is in the JSON, implement a custom converter. The following sample converter code throws an exception if the `Date` property isn't set after deserialization is complete:

> [!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/WeatherForecastRequiredPropertyConverter.cs)]

Reviewer: Looks like using `value` as parameter names isn't great in the docs. They show up colored blue which makes C# harder to read. Maybe use `result` or `forecast` (or maybe this issue can be fixed)?
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6527137/71608014-c3b50100-2b32-11ea-8c47-a77e1ddc46bb.png)

Author: I can report it as a feature request for the publishing system, but it will take a long time to fix, so it will probably be best to go ahead and change the code (i.e., address this in the Samples PR).

[Register this custom converter](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#register-a-custom-converter) by using an attribute on the POCO class or by adding the converter to the `Converters` collection.

> If you follow this pattern, don't pass in the options object when recursively calling `Serialize` or `Deserialize`. The options object contains the `Converters` collection. If you pass it in to `Serialize` or `Deserialize`, the custom converter calls into itself, making an infinite loop that results in a stack overflow exception. If the default options are not feasible, create a new instance of the options with the settings that you need. This approach will be slow since each new instance caches independently.

Reviewer: `This approach will be slow since each new instance caches independently.`

@steveharter, how can we make the workaround work and not be slow?

> This is a simplified example. More complex code would be required if you need to handle attributes (such as `[JsonIgnore]`) or options (such as custom encoders).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a simplified example. Additional logic would be required if you need to handle attributes (such as `[JsonIgnore]`) or different options (such as custom encoders).
```

### MissingMemberHandling

`Newtonsoft.Json` can be configured to throw exceptions during deserialization if the JSON includes properties that are missing in the target type. `System.Text.Json` ignores extra properties in the JSON, except when you use [the [JsonExtensionData] attribute](system-text-json-how-to.md#handle-overflow-json). There's no workaround for the missing member feature.

### TraceWriter

`Newtonsoft.Json` lets you debug by using a `TraceWriter` to view logs that are generated by serialization or deserialization. `System.Text.Json` doesn't do logging.

## JsonDocument

<xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument?displayProperty=fullName> provides the ability to build a read-only Document Object Model (DOM). The DOM provides random access to data in a JSON payload. The JSON elements that compose the payload can be accessed via the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement> type. The `JsonElement` type provides APIs to convert JSON text to common .NET types. `JsonDocument` exposes a <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument.RootElement> property.

### IDisposable

> `JsonDocument` builds an in-memory view of the data into a pooled buffer. Therefore, unlike `Newtonsoft.Json` `JObject` or `JArray`, the `JsonDocument` type implements `IDisposable` and needs to be used inside a using block.

Reviewer: We should also mention that since `JsonDocument` is `IDisposable`, it is generally preferred to use `JsonElement` as the exchange type (pass that in to methods and return it). If you want the caller to own the lifetime of the `JsonDocument` then return that, otherwise, `clone` the JsonElement and returning it instead:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.json.jsonelement.clone?view=netcore-3.1#System_Text_Json_JsonElement_Clone

### Read-only

Since the `System.Text.Json` DOM can't add, remove, or modify JSON elements. If your scenario currently uses a writable DOM, one of the following workarounds might be feasible:

> * To build a `JsonDocument` from scratch, write JSON text by using the `Utf8JsonWriter` and parse the output from that to make a new `JsonDocument`.

Author: I added it to #15805

---

> title: "Migrate from Newtonsoft.Json to System.Text.Json - .NET"

Reviewer 3: This is really well done @tdykstra

* [Differences in **default** JsonSerializer behavior compared to Newtonsoft.Json](#differences-in-default-jsonserializer-behavior-compared-to-newtonsoftjson)
* [Scenarios using JsonSerializer that require workarounds](#scenarios-using-jsonserializer-that-require-workarounds)
* [Scenarios that JsonSerializer currently doesn't support](#scenarios-that-jsonserializer-currently-doesnt-support)
* [JsonDocument and JsonElement compared to JToken (like JObject, JArray)](#jsondocument-and-jsonelement-compared-to-jtoken-like-jobject-jarray)
* [Utf8JsonReader](#utf8jsonreader)
* [Utf8JsonWriter](#utf8jsonwriter)

## Differences in default JsonSerializer behavior compared to Newtonsoft.Json

`System.Text.Json` is strict by default and avoids any guessing or interpretation on the caller's behalf, emphasizing deterministic behavior. The library is intentionally designed this way for performance and security. `Newtonsoft.Json` is flexible by default.

### Case-insensitive deserialization 

> During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` does case-insensitive property name matching by default. The `System.Text.Json` default is case-sensitive, which gives better performance since it's doing an exact match. For information about how to do case-insensitive matching, see [Case-insensitive property matching](system-text-json-how-to.md#case-insensitive-property-matching).

Author: Ditto.

> If you're using `System.Text.Json` indirectly by using ASP.NET Core, you don't need to do anything to get behavior like `Newtonsoft.Json`. ASP.NET Core specifies the case-insensitive setting when it uses `System.Text.Json`.

Reviewer 3: Can a developer select case-sensitive comparisons in an ASP.NET Core application? Or would that break dependencies in ASP.NET Core?

Author: >Can a developer select case-sensitive comparisons in an ASP.NET Core application? Or would that break dependencies in ASP.NET Core?

You can select it, but whether it would break anything other than app code that depends on the Newtonsoft default I don't know.  Maybe @pranavkm  or @ahsonkhan  would know.

Reviewer: > Or would that break dependencies in ASP.NET Core?

It shouldn't. As far as I know, it will just affect model binding semantics, so certain payloads won't bind to the API because of mismatch due to casing. If the developer wants that behavior, it is legitimate to do so. @pranavkm can correct me or expand on that, if needed :)

Reviewer 3: Thanks @ahsonkhan 

Here's what raised the question in my mind: I've written a few small apps that use the GitHub GraphQL and REST APIs. Most are console apps, one is a web site. I've got unit tests on the types I've created that encapsulate the JsonElement types. This made me wonder if there would be different behavior in the unit tests, the console apps, and the web app. And, if so, what would be the best way for a developer to ensure consistent behavior. That would make it easier to trust the unit tests.

Reviewer: > GitHub GraphQL and REST APIs

Is the JSON responses from those always camel cased, or is it sometime pascal case/mixed? Depending on your inputs and scenario, you either want to set the `PropertyNamingPolicy` or `PropertyNameCaseInsensitive` or both. Are you only ever reading or do you ever write JSON?

> I've got unit tests on the types I've created that encapsulate the JsonElement types

The case-insensitive vs case-sensitive property name comparison only applies to `JsonSerializer` and `JsonSerializerOptions`. `JsonElement` always does case-sensitive (exact) match, so the question doesn't apply there.

> This made me wonder if there would be different behavior in the unit tests, the console apps, and the web app.

I would have to see the details of the code to better answer this. That said, given the default `JsonSerializer` behavior differs from what aspnet uses as its defaults, you will see a difference between uses within console apps vs web apps. One way to make it consistent is to use the same options across the board (so either change the uses of `JsonSerializerOptions` in the console app to match what aspnet is doing, or vice versa).

These are the defaults settings of the `JsonSerializer` within aspnet:
https://github.com/dotnet/aspnetcore/blob/a6bc6ce23dad5a9d02596cf2e91e3c4f965c61bc/src/Mvc/Mvc.Core/src/JsonOptions.cs#L15-L29

* Infers the type of primitive values in the JSON payload (other than `null`) and returns the stored `string`, `long`, `double`, `boolean`, or `DateTime` as a boxed object. *Primitive values* are single JSON values such as a JSON number, string, true, false, or null.
* Returns the stored complex values as a `JObject` or `JArray`. *Complex values* are collections of JSON key-value pairs within braces (`{}`) or lists of values within brackets (`[]`). The properties and values within the braces or brackets can have additional properties or values.
* Returns a null reference when the payload has the `null` JSON literal.

<xref:System.Text.Json> stores a boxed `JsonElement` for both primitive and complex values within the `System.Object` property or dictionary value. However, it treats `null` the same as `Newtonsoft.Json` and returns a null reference when the payload has the `null` JSON literal in it.

To implement type inference for `Object` properties, create a converter like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#deserialize-inferred-types-to-object-properties).

### Maximum depth

> `Newtonsoft.Json` doesn't have a maximum depth limit. For <xref:System.Text.Json> there's a default limit  of 64, and it's configurable by setting (xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.MaxDepth?displayProperty=nameWithType).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Newtonsoft.Json` doesn't have a maximum depth limit by default. For <xref:System.Text.Json> there's a default limit  of 64, and it's configurable by setting (xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.MaxDepth?displayProperty=nameWithType).
```

> ### Stack type handling

Reviewer: This is a timely addition :)
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/59604609/how-can-i-serialize-a-stackt-to-json-using-system-text-json-without-reversing

@layomia, @steveharter - let's make sure folks can workaround this and provide a converter.
https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/41887#issuecomment-571225552

Reviewer: Here's a converter for `Stack<T>`:

```C#
public class JsonConverterFactoryForStackOfT : JsonConverterFactory
{
    public override bool CanConvert(Type typeToConvert)
    {
        return typeToConvert.IsGenericType && typeToConvert.GetGenericTypeDefinition() == typeof(Stack<>);
    }

    public override JsonConverter CreateConverter(Type typeToConvert, JsonSerializerOptions options)
    {
        Debug.Assert(typeToConvert.IsGenericType && typeToConvert.GetGenericTypeDefinition() == typeof(Stack<>));

        Type elementType = typeToConvert.GetGenericArguments()[0];

        JsonConverter converter = (JsonConverter)Activator.CreateInstance(
            typeof(JsonConverterForStackOfT<>).MakeGenericType(new Type[] { elementType }),
            BindingFlags.Instance | BindingFlags.Public,
            binder: null,
            args: null,
            culture: null)!;

        return converter;
    }
}

public class JsonConverterForStackOfT<T> : JsonConverter<Stack<T>>
{
    public override Stack<T> Read(ref Utf8JsonReader reader, Type typeToConvert, JsonSerializerOptions options)
    {
        if (reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.StartArray || !reader.Read())
        {
            throw new JsonException();
        }

        var elements = new Stack<T>();

        while (reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.EndArray)
        {
            elements.Push(JsonSerializer.Deserialize<T>(ref reader, options));

            if (!reader.Read())
            {
                throw new JsonException();
            }
        }

        return elements;
    }

    public override void Write(Utf8JsonWriter writer, Stack<T> value, JsonSerializerOptions options)
    {
        writer.WriteStartArray();

        var reversed = new Stack<T>(value);

        foreach (T item in reversed)
        {
            JsonSerializer.Serialize(writer, item, options);
        }

        writer.WriteEndArray();
    }
}
```
That said, `Newtonsoft.Json` and `System.Text.Json` behave identically in this regard and hence this section should be removed from the migration page and added to the converter samples page (under a heading like: “Roundtrip Stack and Stack<T> types by reversing items on serialization”).

```C#
private static void StackBehavior()
{
    Stack<int> stack = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<Stack<int>>("[1, 2, 3]");
    Console.WriteLine(stack.Peek()); // top of stack is 3

    string serialized = JsonSerializer.Serialize(stack);
    Console.WriteLine(serialized); // stack contents are reversed on serialize [3, 2, 1]

    // This matches Newtonsoft.Json behavior
    stack = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<Stack<int>>("[1, 2, 3]");
    Console.WriteLine(stack.Peek()); // top of stack is 3

    serialized = JsonConvert.SerializeObject(stack);
    // stack contents are reversed on serialize even on Newtonsoft.Json [3, 2, 1]
    Console.WriteLine(serialized);

    // non-generic stack
    var s = new Stack();
    s.Push(1);
    s.Push(2);
    s.Push(3);

    serialized = JsonSerializer.Serialize(s);
    Console.WriteLine(serialized); // stack contents are reversed on serialize, by default [3, 2, 1]

    ImmutableStack<int> y = ImmutableStack.Create(1, 2, 3);
    serialized = JsonSerializer.Serialize(y);
    Console.WriteLine(serialized); // stack contents are reversed on serialize, by default [3, 2, 1]

    // How to use the JsonConverterFactory to get roundtrip behavior.
    var options = new JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        Converters = { new JsonConverterFactoryForStackOfT() },
    };
    stack = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<Stack<int>>("[1, 2, 3]", options);
    Console.WriteLine(stack.Peek()); // top of stack is 3

    serialized = JsonSerializer.Serialize(stack, options);
    Console.WriteLine(serialized); // round-trips exactly [1, 2, 3]
}
```

* It serializes them as JSON strings. 
* It accepts JSON numbers and numbers within quotes while deserializing.

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/LongToStringConverter.cs)]

Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-property) on individual `long` properties or by [adding the converter](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection) to the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.Converters> collection.

### Dictionary with non-string key

`Newtonsoft.Json` supports collections of type `Dictionary<TKey, TValue>`. The built-in support for dictionary collections in <xref:System.Text.Json> is limited to `Dictionary<string, TValue>`. That is, the key must be a string.

To support a dictionary with an integer or some other type as the key, create a converter like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#support-dictionary-with-non-string-key).

> ### Polymorphic deserialization

Author: Revised the polymorphic serialization section in the how-to doc and linked to it in a new polymorphic serialization in the migrate doc. Referred to Write method of Steve's polymorphic converter as  second workaround option after defining properties as object. Will work on making that converter multi-level later.

> ### Polymorphic deserialization

Reviewer: Sounds good. Thanks!

### Required properties

During deserialization, `System.Text.Json` doesn't throw an exception if no value is received in the JSON for one of the properties of the target type. For example, if you have a `WeatherForecast` class:

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/WeatherForecast.cs?name=SnippetWF)]

The following JSON is deserialized without error:

```json
{
    "TemperatureCelsius": 25,
    "Summary": "Hot"
}
```

To make deserialization fail if no `Date` property is in the JSON, implement a custom converter. The following sample converter code throws an exception if the `Date` property isn't set after deserialization is complete:

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/WeatherForecastRequiredPropertyConverter.cs)]

Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-type) on the POCO class or by [adding the converter](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection) to the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.Converters> collection.

> If you follow this pattern, don't pass in the options object when recursively calling `Serialize` or `Deserialize`. The options object contains the `Converters` collection. If you pass it in to `Serialize` or `Deserialize`, the custom converter calls into itself, making an infinite loop that results in a stack overflow exception. If the default options are not feasible, create a new instance of the options with the settings that you need. This approach will be slow since each new instance caches independently.

Reviewer 3: Should the `Serialize` and `Deserialize` methods be xref links?

### Deserialize null to non-nullable type 

`Newtonsoft.Json` doesn't throw an exception in the following scenario:

* `NullValueHandling` is set to `Ignore`, and
* During deserialization, the JSON contains a null value for a non-nullable type.

In the same scenario, <xref:System.Text.Json> does throw an exception. (The corresponding null handling setting is <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.IgnoreNullValues?displayProperty=nameWithType>.)

If you own the target type, the easiest workaround is to make the property in question nullable (for example, change `int` to `int?`).

Another workaround is to make a converter for the type, such as the following example that handles null values for `DateTimeOffset` types:

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/DateTimeOffsetNullHandlingConverter.cs)]

Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-property) on the property or by [adding the converter](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection) to the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.Converters> collection.

> The preceding converter handles null values differently than `Newtonsoft.Json` does for POCOs that specify default values. For example, suppose the following code represents your target object:

Reviewer: We should highlight this difference a bit more explicitly so that it shows up. Right now, this difference is hidden in a wall of text.

Maybe this could help increase visibility:
```suggestion
**Note:** The preceding converter handles null values **differently** than `Newtonsoft.Json` does for POCOs that specify default values. For example, suppose the following code represents your target object:
```

### IDisposable

`JsonDocument` builds an in-memory view of the data into a pooled buffer. Therefore, unlike `JObject` or `JArray` from `Newtonsoft.Json`, the `JsonDocument` type implements `IDisposable` and needs to be used inside a using block.

### Read-only

The `System.Text.Json` DOM can't add, remove, or modify JSON elements. It's designed this way for performance and to reduce allocations for parsing common JSON payload sizes (that is, < 1 MB). If your scenario currently uses a writable/modifiable DOM, one of the following workarounds might be feasible:

* To build a `JsonDocument` from scratch (that is, without passing in an existing JSON payload to the `Parse` method), write the JSON text by using the `Utf8JsonWriter` and parse the output from that to make a new `JsonDocument`.

> * To modify an existing `JsonDocument`, use it to write JSON text, making changes while you write, and parse the output from that to make a new `JsonDocument`.

Author: For now I'll link to the issue, later will add it to the snippet samples project.

### JsonElement

`JsonDocument` exposes the `RootElement` as a property of type <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement>, which is a union, struct type that encompasses any JSON element. `Newtonsoft.Json` uses dedicated hierarchical types like `JObject`,`JArray`, `JToken`, and so forth. `JsonElement` is what you can search and enumerate over, and you can use `JsonElement` to materialize JSON elements into .NET types.

### Search a JsonDocument

> Searches for JSON tokens using `JObject` or `JArray` from `Newtonsoft.Json` tend to be relatively fast because they're look-ups in some dictionary. By comparison, searches on `JsonElement` require a sequential search of the properties and hence is relatively slow (for example when using `TryGetProperty`). <xref:System.Text.Json> is designed to minimize initial parse time rather than look-up time. Therefore, use the following approaches to optimize performance when searching through a `JsonDocument` object:

Author: >generally speaking, APIs should accept `JsonElement` (not `JsonDocument`) 

Is that because JsonDocument is IDisposable or some other reason?

> and you should also generally only return a `JsonElement` that is a sub-element of the passed in `JsonElement`. 

What is the reason for this recommendation?

> Searches for JSON tokens using `JObject` or `JArray` from `Newtonsoft.Json` tend to be relatively fast because they're look-ups in some dictionary. By comparison, searches on `JsonElement` require a sequential search of the properties and hence is relatively slow (for example when using `TryGetProperty`). <xref:System.Text.Json> is designed to minimize initial parse time rather than look-up time. Therefore, use the following approaches to optimize performance when searching through a `JsonDocument` object:

Reviewer: > Is that because JsonDocument is IDisposable

Yes, but also, having the called method do `doc.RootElement` and process/search the whole document is most likely not what you want. The caller should instead pass in the sub-element that is scoped/relevant to the called method.

Otherwise, each API that is accepting a `JsonDocument` would first look for/get the subset they care about.

Of course, scenarios might exists where users may want to pass in `JsonDocument` (and there is nothing wrong with doing so, if needed), such as passing ownership. I just think it wouldn't be very common. And if the method needs to process the whole payload, passing in `JsonDocument.RootElement` would do the trick anyway.

> What is the reason for this recommendation?

There is no way to build up a `JsonElement` and it is immutable. So, if your API is returning a `JsonElement`, it must have got it from somewhere. I can see two such ways:
1) The API got a `JsonElement` as input - it can't modify the contents, but can search within it and return a sub-element (say the `JsonElement` contains this JSON object and the API wants to validate correctness and return the nested JSON array "{foo:[1,2,3]"}).
2) The API used some input source like stream/string/etc. or created a stream/string/etc. and called `JsonDocument.Parse` on it to generate a `JsonDocument`. The API should then either return that `JsonDocument` (to let the caller own it), OR it should `Clone` the `RootElement` (which is a `JsonElement`) before returning it (or a subset of it).

So, maybe we can re-word it to explain the two scenarios, so it is clearer.

That said, again, this is just guideline (because that's what scenarios would require and might be useful for folks to know). Someone could also have an API do combination of both or something else, but I haven't seen such things in practice too often.

```C#
// Some arbitrary counter-example to the common usages of JsonElement within APIs
// LookAndLoad isn't returning a subset of the passed in JsonElement.
public JsonElement LookAndLoad(JsonElement source)
{
   // The passed in JsonElement contains the filename used to load up some JSON
   string json = File.ReadAllText(source.GetProperty("fileName").GetString());
   
   using (JsonDocument doc = JsonDocument.Parse(json))
   {
      return doc.RootElement.Clone();
   }
}
```

* Use the built-in enumerators (<xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement.EnumerateArray%2A> and <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement.EnumerateObject%2A>) rather than doing your own indexing or loops.
* Don't do a sequential search on the whole `JsonDocument` through every property by using `RootElement`. Instead, search on nested JSON objects based on the known structure of the JSON data. For example, if you're looking for a `Grade` property in `Student` objects, loop through the `Student` objects and get the value of `Grade` for each, rather than searching through all `JsonElement` objects looking for `Grade` properties. Doing the latter will do unnecessary passes over the same data.

For a code example, see [Use JsonDocument for access to data](system-text-json-how-to.md#use-jsondocument-for-access-to-data).

> ## Utf8JsonReader

Reviewer: Maybe?
```suggestion
## Utf8JsonReader vs. JsonTextReader
```

    }

    return reader.GetString();
}
```

### Multi-targeting

If you need to continue to use `Newtonsoft.Json` for certain target frameworks, you can multi-target and have two implementations. However, this is not trivial and would require some `#ifdefs` and source duplication. One way to share as much code as possible is to create a `ref struct` wrapper around `Utf8JsonReader` and `Newtonsoft.Json` `JsonTextReader`. This wrapper would unify the public surface area while isolating the behavioral differences. This lets you isolate the changes mainly to the construction of the type, along with passing the new type around by reference. This is the pattern that the [.NET Core installer](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/tree/master/src/installer) follows:

* [UnifiedJsonReader.JsonTextReader.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/35fe82c2e90fa345d0b6ad243c14da193fb123fd/src/installer/managed/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/UnifiedJsonReader.JsonTextReader.cs)
* [UnifiedJsonReader.Utf8JsonReader.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/35fe82c2e90fa345d0b6ad243c14da193fb123fd/src/installer/managed/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/UnifiedJsonReader.Utf8JsonReader.cs)

> ## Utf8JsonWriter

Reviewer: Maybe?

```suggestion
## Utf8JsonWriter vs. JsonTextWriter
```

<xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter?displayProperty=fullName> is a high-performance way to write UTF-8 encoded JSON text from common .NET types like `String`, `Int32`, and `DateTime`. The writer is a low-level type that can be used to build custom serializers.

The following sections explain recommended programming patterns for using `Utf8JsonWriter`.

> ### Write with UTF-8 text

Reviewer: This also applies to folks who want custom escape behavior and use the [`WritePropertyName(string name, bool escape)`](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/M_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonWriter_WritePropertyName_1.htm) API.

`System.Text.Json` doesn't let you disable escaping while writing a string. However, you could pass in your own custom `JavascriptEncoder` as an option to the writer, or create your own `JsonEncodedText` which uses your `JavascriptEncoder` do to the escaping and then write the `JsonEncodedText` instead of the string.

To achieve the best possible performance while using the `Utf8JsonWriter`, write JSON payloads already encoded as UTF-8 text rather than as UTF-16 strings. For example, if you're writing string literals, consider caching them as static byte arrays, and write those instead.

> ### WriteRawValue

Reviewer: We should add a section on [StringEscapeHandling](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_StringEscapeHandling.htm) and how that compares to our default.

`Utf8JsonWriter`, by default, is equivalent to the caller using both `EscapeNonAscii` and `EscapeHtml` (at the same time). This is done for defense-in-depth purposes (secure by default).
For other behaviors, create your own `JavaScriptEncoder` and set the `Encoder` property in `JsonWriterOptions`.
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.json.jsonwriteroptions.encoder?view=netcore-3.1#System_Text_Json_JsonWriterOptions_Encoder

Also, it uses capital hex digits when writing characters out escaped (whereas `Newtonsoft.Json` uses lower case). This shouldn't affect the semantic value of the strings though.

```C#
var textWriter = new StringWriter();
using (JsonWriter jsonWriter = new JsonTextWriter(textWriter))
{
    jsonWriter.StringEscapeHandling = StringEscapeHandling.Default;
    jsonWriter.WriteValue("hello<>!&é");
}
Console.WriteLine(textWriter.ToString()); // "hello<>!&é"

textWriter = new StringWriter();
using (JsonWriter jsonWriter = new JsonTextWriter(textWriter))
{
    jsonWriter.StringEscapeHandling = StringEscapeHandling.EscapeHtml;
    jsonWriter.WriteValue("hello<>!&é");
}
Console.WriteLine(textWriter.ToString()); // "hello\u003c\u003e!\u0026é"

textWriter = new StringWriter();
using (JsonWriter jsonWriter = new JsonTextWriter(textWriter))
{
    jsonWriter.StringEscapeHandling = StringEscapeHandling.EscapeNonAscii;
    jsonWriter.WriteValue("hello<>!&é");
}
Console.WriteLine(textWriter.ToString()); // "hello<>!&\u00e9"

var outputStream = new MemoryStream();
using (var jsonWriter = new Utf8JsonWriter(outputStream))
{
    jsonWriter.WriteStringValue("hello<>!&é");
}
Console.WriteLine(Encoding.UTF8.GetString(outputStream.ToArray())); // "hello\u003C\u003E!\u0026\u00E9"
```

Also, it might be worth noting that the following customizations are not supported with `Utf8JsonWriter`:
[Indentation](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_Indentation.htm) - how many indentation chars to use, we always use 2
[IndentChar](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_IndentChar.htm) - which char to use for indentation, we always use whitespace character
[QuoteChar](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_QuoteChar.htm) - which char to use to surround string values, we always use double quote (otherwise the JSON produced would be invalid)
[QuoteName](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_QuoteName.htm) - whether or not to surround property names with quotes, we always quote them (otherwise the JSON produced would be invalid)

If you rely on any of these features/customization, you should keep using `Newtonsoft.Json` or consider changing your output format to be JSON compliant or one that can be written by `Utf8JsonWriter` (i..e can't customize the white space/indentation behavior).

> ### WriteRawValue

Reviewer: Similarly, we should mention we don't support customization like [FloatFormatHandling](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_FloatFormatHandling.htm).

If you have double.NaN, +/-Infinity or float.NaN, we throw since there is no canonical/valid way to write those values. Newtonsoft.Json let's you write invalid JSON OR write them as strings. If you want the latter behavior, check for those values and call `WriteStringValue` instead of `WriteNumberValue`.

The `Newtonsoft.Json` `WriteRawValue` method writes raw JSON where a value is expected. <xref:System.Text.Json> has no direct equivalent, but here's a workaround:

```csharp
using JsonDocument doc = JsonDocument.Parse(string);
doc.WriteTo(writer);
```

> ### Write null values

Reviewer: We don't support writing `TimeSpan`, `Uri`, and `char` directly. Instead, callers must format them as strings (calling `ToString()` or equivalent) and call `WriteStringValue` APIs explicitly.

For example:
https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/M_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_WriteValue_22.htm

### Multi-targeting

If you need to continue to use `Newtonsoft.Json` for certain target frameworks, you can multi-target and have two implementations. However, this is not trivial and would require some `#ifdefs` and source duplication. One way to share as much code as possible is to create a wrapper around `Utf8JsonWriter` and `Newtonsoft` `JsonTextWriter`. This wrapper would unify the public surface area while isolating the behavioral differences. This lets you isolate the changes mainly to the construction of the type. This is the pattern that the [.NET Core installer](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/tree/master/src/installer) follows:

* [UnifiedJsonWriter.JsonTextWriter.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/35fe82c2e90fa345d0b6ad243c14da193fb123fd/src/installer/managed/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/UnifiedJsonWriter.JsonTextWriter.cs)
* [UnifiedJsonWriter.Utf8JsonWriter.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/35fe82c2e90fa345d0b6ad243c14da193fb123fd/src/installer/managed/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/UnifiedJsonWriter.Utf8JsonWriter.cs)

## Additional resources

> * <!-- [System.Text.Json roadmap](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/blob/master/src/System.Text.Json/roadmap/README.md)[Restore this when the roadmap is updated.]-->

Reviewer: This is creating an empty bullet. We should comment the whole thing out.
```suggestion
<!--* [System.Text.Json roadmap](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/blob/master/src/System.Text.Json/roadmap/README.md)[Restore this when the roadmap is updated.]-->
```
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6527137/71869667-b9ad7800-30c7-11ea-8834-acf0aa1025c1.png)

---
title: "Migrate from Newtonsoft Json.NET to System.Text.Json - .NET"
author: tdykstra
ms.author: tdykstra
ms.date: "12/02/2019"
helpviewer_keywords: 
  - "JSON serialization"
  - "serializing objects"
  - "serialization"
  - "objects, serializing"
---

# How to migrate from Newtonsoft Json.NET to System.Text.Json

> This article shows how to migrate from [Newtonsoft Json.NET](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json) to the JSON serialization tools in the [System.Text.Json namespace](system-text-json-overview.md).

Reviewer 4: It seems strange to say that these are serialization tools.

> `System.Text.Json` is relatively new, and its initial focus is on performance, security, and standards compliance. It lacks built-in features to handle some common scenarios, and some default behaviors differ from Newtonsoft. For some scenarios, `System.Text.Json` has no built-in functionality, but therre are recommended workarounds. For other scenarios,  workarounds are impractical. If your application depends on a missing feature that has no workaround, consider delaying your migration to `System.Text.Json`. 

Reviewer 4: I would remove the time-based clause here: "is relatively new" as something is only new for a short period of time. I would also refrain from saying "Initially" as it brings in the idea that there is a guarantee that this will change. But we have no guarantee that the API evolves beyond anything it currently does. I would just state:

>`System.Text.Json` currently focuses on performance, security, and standards compliant. Compared to Newtonsoft JSON, it lacks X Y Z. .... etc

Also, some typos in the current text, a double space and "therre"

```suggestion
`System.Text.Json` is relatively new, and its initial focus is on performance, security, and standards compliance. It lacks built-in features to handle some common scenarios, and some default behaviors differ from Newtonsoft. For some scenarios, `System.Text.Json` has no built-in functionality, but there are recommended workarounds. For other scenarios, workarounds are impractical. If your application depends on a missing feature that has no workaround, consider delaying your migration to `System.Text.Json`. 
```

<!-- For information about which features might be added in future releases, see the [Roadmap](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/tree/master/src/libraries/System.Text.Json/roadmap/README.md). [Restore this when the roadmap is updated.]-->

> Most of this article is about how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer> API, but it also includes guidance on how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument> Document Object Model (DOM) API and the <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader> and <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter> API. The article is organized into sections in the following order:

Reviewer 4: Is using types better than API here? I would think of the whole namespace as the API for a JSON, or individual groups of types as the API for a scenario, but individual classes are still types. I donno though 😄 

```suggestion
Most of this article is about how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializer> API, but it also includes guidance on how to use the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument> Document Object Model (DOM) API and the <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader> and <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter> types. The article is organized into sections in the following order:
```

If you're using `System.Text.Json` indirectly by using ASP.NET Core, you don't need to do anything to get behavior like Newtonsoft. ASP.NET Core specifies the case-insensitive setting when it uses `System.Text.Json`.

## Comments

During deserialization, Newtonsoft ignores comments in the JSON by default. The `System.Text.Json` default is to throw exceptions for comments because the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification doesn't include them. For information about how to allow comments, see [Allow comments and trailing commas](system-text-json-how-to.md#allow-comments-and-trailing-commas).

## Trailing commas

During deserialization, Newtonsoft ignores trailing commas by default. In some cases, it ignores multiple trailing commas (for example, `[{"Color":"Red"},{"Color":"Green"},,]`). The `System.Text.Json` default is to throw exceptions for trailing commas because the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification doesn't include them. For information about how to allow trailing commas, see [Allow comments and trailing commas](system-text-json-how-to.md#allow-comments-and-trailing-commas). There's no way to allow multiple trailing commas.

> ## Character escaping

Reviewer 5: Should this be moved further down the list? ASP.NET Core configures this to use the less aggressive encoding behavior, so we've seen no issue reports for this. On the other hand, we've had lots of users confused by the strict date time parsing and "Quoted numbers" changes. Might be useful to bump those further up?

Author: At present the sections are in groups: no workaround needed, workaround sample code provided, and no workaround sample code provided. If I keep that organization I can move encoding  to the end of the first group and move quoted numbers and dates to the start of the second group. If you think that still leaves encoding too prominent or the others too far down, I'm open to suggestions for changing the organization.

Reviewer 5: Let's start with what it's already here, maybe we can tweak it based on if users have difficulty discovering things.

## Converter registration precedence

The Newtonsoft registration precedence for custom converters is as follows:

* Attribute on property
* Attribute on type
* `Converters` collection

This order means that a custom converter in the `Converters` collection is overridden by a converter that is registered by applying an attribute at the type level. Both of those registrations are overridden by an attribute at the property level.

The `System.Text.Json` registration precedence for custom converters is different:

* Attribute on property
* `Converters` collection
* Attribute on type

The difference here is that a custom converter in the `Converters` collection overrides an attribute at the type level. The intention behind this order of precedence is to make run-time changes override design-time choices. There's no way to change the precedence.

## Newtonsoft [JsonProperty] attribute

> Newtonsoft has a `[JsonProperty]` attribute that is used for a variety of functions. `System.Text.Json` has single-purpose attributes instead of a multi-purpose attribute. The following attributes serve purposes similar to some of the Newtonsoft attribute functions:

Reviewer 5: Would it help to have a table of equivalency here? Something like this https://xunit.net/docs/comparisons would be really helpful and can evolve over time as new features are added.

Author: That's a great idea - I created a separate issue for it (#16309) and will address it in a separate PR.

Reviewer: Another example is the table from `Newtonsoft.Json`, something like this:
https://www.newtonsoft.com/json
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6527137/71871777-2710d700-30cf-11ea-8dba-764606533070.png)

## Types without built-in support

`System.Text.Json` doesn't provide built-in support for the following types. The list includes links to the issues that track the request for support:

* <xref:System.Data.DataTable> and related types. [38712](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/38712)
* F# types, such as [discriminated unions](../../fsharp/language-reference/discriminated-unions.md), [record types](../../fsharp/language-reference/records.md), and [anonymous record types](../../fsharp/language-reference/anonymous-records.md). [38348](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/38348)
* Collection types in the <xref:System.Collections.Specialized> namespace. [40370](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/40370)
* <xref:System.Dynamic.ExpandoObject>. [38007](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/38007)
* <xref:System.TimeZoneInfo>. [41348](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/41348)
* <xref:System.Numerics.BigInteger>. [33458](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/33458)
* <xref:System.TimeSpan>. [38641](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/38641)
* <xref:System.DBNull>. [418](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/418)

## Fields

> Newtonsoft can serialize and deserialize fields as well as properties. The current release of `System.Text.Json` only works with properties. For more information, see issue [36505](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/36505) in the dotnet/corefx GitHub repository.

Reviewer 5: Would it make sense to drop the `The current release of ...`"? This could always be updated to use `::monkier framework > 5.0` to specify how to configure System.Text.Json to support new features if and when they're supported. This one for instance would likely need a feature flag to be enabled.

## Preserve object references and handle loops

By default, Newtonsoft serializes by value. For example, if an object contains two properties that contain a reference to the same `Person` object, the values of that `Person` object's properties are duplicated in the JSON.

Newtonsoft has a `PreserveReferencesHandling` setting on `JsonSerializerSettings` that lets you serialize by reference:

* A token is added to the JSON created for the first `Person` object.
* The JSON that is created for the second `Person` object contains that token instead of property values.

Newtonsoft also has a `ReferenceLoopHandling` setting that lets you ignore circular references rather than throw an exception.

The current release of `System.Text.Json` supports only serialization by value. For more information, see issues [37786](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/37786), [38579](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/38579), and [41002](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/41002) in the dotnet/corefx GitHub repository.

## System.Runtime.Serialization attributes

> `System.Text.Json` doesn't support attributes from the `System.Runtime.Serialization` namespace, such as `DataMemberAttribute` and `IgnoreDataMemberAttribute`. This lack of support is a design decision that is not likely to change in the future.

Reviewer 5: Is it necessary to call this out:

> This lack of support is a design decision that is not likely to change in the future.

* <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter.WriteNull%2A> to write a key-value pair with null as the value.
* <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter.WriteNullValue%2A> to write null as an element of a JSON array.

For a string property, if the string is null, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter.WriteString%2A> and <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter.WriteStringValue%2A> are equivalent to `WriteNull` and `WriteNullValue`.

### Multi-targeting

If you need to continue to use Newtonsoft for certain target frameworks, you can multi-target and have two implementations. However, this is not trivial and would require some `#ifdefs` and source duplication. One way to share as much code as possible is to create a `ref struct` wrapper around `Utf8JsonReader` and Newtonsoft `JsonTextReader`, and a wrapper around `Utf8JsonWriter` and `JsonTextWriter`. This wrapper would unify the public surface area while isolating the behavioral differences. This lets you isolate the changes mainly to the construction of the type, along with passing the new type around by reference. This is the pattern that the [.NET Core installer](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/tree/master/src/installer) follows:

> * [UnifiedJsonReader.JsonTextReader.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/master/src/installer/managed/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/UnifiedJsonReader.JsonTextReader.cs)

Reviewer 5: These should point to an exact hash. Pointing to the master branch is problematic if the types move around or is deleted

### MissingMemberHandling

`Newtonsoft.Json` can be configured to throw exceptions during deserialization if the JSON includes properties that are missing in the target type. <xref:System.Text.Json> ignores extra properties in the JSON, except when you use the [[JsonExtensionData] attribute](system-text-json-how-to.md#handle-overflow-json). There's no workaround for the missing member feature.

### TraceWriter

`Newtonsoft.Json` lets you debug by using a `TraceWriter` to view logs that are generated by serialization or deserialization. <xref:System.Text.Json> doesn't do logging.

## JsonDocument and JsonElement compared to JToken (like JObject, JArray)

<xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument?displayProperty=fullName> provides the ability to parse and build a **read-only** Document Object Model (DOM) from existing JSON payloads. The DOM provides random access to data in a JSON payload. The JSON elements that compose the payload can be accessed via the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement> type. The `JsonElement` type provides APIs to convert JSON text to common .NET types. `JsonDocument` exposes a <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument.RootElement> property.

### IDisposable

> `JsonDocument` builds an in-memory view of the data into a pooled buffer. Therefore, unlike `JObject` or `JArray` from `Newtonsoft.Json`, the `JsonDocument` type implements `IDisposable` and needs to be used inside a using block. Only return a `JsonDocument` from your API if you want to transfer lifetime ownership and dispose responsibility to the caller. Otherwise, return the `Clone` of the `RootElement`, which is a `JsonElement`.

Reviewer: Make the APIs being referred to in the text as links to the doc:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.json.jsonelement.clone?view=netcore-3.1
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.text.json.jsondocument.rootelement?view=netcore-3.1

Following how it's being done elsewhere in the doc, something like this:

```suggestion
`JsonDocument` builds an in-memory view of the data into a pooled buffer. Therefore, unlike `JObject` or `JArray` from `Newtonsoft.Json`, the `JsonDocument` type implements `IDisposable` and needs to be used inside a using block. Only return a `JsonDocument` from your API if you want to transfer lifetime ownership and dispose responsibility to the caller. Otherwise, return the [Clone](xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement.Clone) of the [RootElement](xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument.RootElement), which is a `JsonElement`.
```

### Comments

During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` ignores comments in the JSON by default. The <xref:System.Text.Json> default is to throw exceptions for comments because the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification doesn't include them. For information about how to allow comments, see [Allow comments and trailing commas](system-text-json-how-to.md#allow-comments-and-trailing-commas).

### Trailing commas

During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` ignores trailing commas by default. It also ignores multiple trailing commas (for example, `[{"Color":"Red"},{"Color":"Green"},,]`). The <xref:System.Text.Json> default is to throw exceptions for trailing commas because the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification doesn't include them. For information about how to allow trailing commas, see [Allow comments and trailing commas](system-text-json-how-to.md#allow-comments-and-trailing-commas). There's no way to allow multiple trailing commas.

> ### JSON strings

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
### JSON strings (property names and string values)
```

> During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` accepts property names surrounded by double quotes, single quotes, or without quotes. It accepts string values surrounded by double quotes or single quotes. For example:For example:

Reviewer: Double `For example:`
```suggestion
During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` accepts property names surrounded by double quotes, single quotes, or without quotes. It accepts string values surrounded by double quotes or single quotes. For example:
```

```json
{
  "name1": "value",
  'name2': "value",
  name3: 'value'
}
```

> `System.Text.Json` only accepts names and string values in double quotes because that format is required by the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification and is the only format considered valid JSON.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
`System.Text.Json` only accepts property names and string values in double quotes because that format is required by the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification and is the only format considered valid JSON.
```

Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-property) on individual `long` properties or by [adding the converter](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection) to the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.Converters> collection.

### Dictionary with non-string key

`Newtonsoft.Json` supports collections of type `Dictionary<TKey, TValue>`. The built-in support for dictionary collections in <xref:System.Text.Json> is limited to `Dictionary<string, TValue>`. That is, the key must be a string.

To support a dictionary with an integer or some other type as the key, create a converter like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#support-dictionary-with-non-string-key).

### Polymorphic serialization

`Newtonsoft.Json` automatically does polymorphic serialization. For information about the limited polymorphic serialization capabilities of <xref:System.Text.Json>, see [Serialize properties of derived classes](system-text-json-how-to.md#serialize-properties-of-derived-classes).

> The workaround described there is to define properties that may contain derived classes as type `Object`. If that isn't possible, another option is to create a converter with a `Write` for the whole type like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#support-polymorphic-deserialization).

Reviewer: I had updated my suggestion which got lost (when I changed from doing a single commit review to PR review so I could use the suggestion feature and make the feedback easier to see in context).

Also, add back the word "method".

```suggestion
The workaround described there is to define properties that may contain derived classes as type `Object`. If that isn't possible, another option is to create a converter with a `Write` method for the whole inheritance type hierarchy like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#support-polymorphic-deserialization).
```

### MissingMemberHandling

`Newtonsoft.Json` can be configured to throw exceptions during deserialization if the JSON includes properties that are missing in the target type. <xref:System.Text.Json> ignores extra properties in the JSON, except when you use the [[JsonExtensionData] attribute](system-text-json-how-to.md#handle-overflow-json). There's no workaround for the missing member feature.

### TraceWriter

`Newtonsoft.Json` lets you debug by using a `TraceWriter` to view logs that are generated by serialization or deserialization. <xref:System.Text.Json> doesn't do logging.

## JsonDocument and JsonElement compared to JToken (like JObject, JArray)

<xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument?displayProperty=fullName> provides the ability to parse and build a **read-only** Document Object Model (DOM) from existing JSON payloads. The DOM provides random access to data in a JSON payload. The JSON elements that compose the payload can be accessed via the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement> type. The `JsonElement` type provides APIs to convert JSON text to common .NET types. `JsonDocument` exposes a <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument.RootElement> property.

### IDisposable

> `JsonDocument` builds an in-memory view of the data into a pooled buffer. Therefore, unlike `JObject` or `JArray` from `Newtonsoft.Json`, the `JsonDocument` type implements `IDisposable` and needs to be used inside a using block. Only return a `JsonDocument` from your API if you want to transfer lifetime ownership and dispose responsibility to the caller. Otherwise, return a Cloned JsonElement.

Reviewer: Maybe these should be API refs (Clone, JsonElement).

```suggestion
`JsonDocument` builds an in-memory view of the data into a pooled buffer. Therefore, unlike `JObject` or `JArray` from `Newtonsoft.Json`, the `JsonDocument` type implements `IDisposable` and needs to be used inside a using block. Only return a `JsonDocument` from your API if you want to transfer lifetime ownership and dispose responsibility to the caller. Otherwise, return the `Clone` the `RootElement` which is a `JsonElement`.
```

### Trailing commas

During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` ignores trailing commas by default. It also ignores multiple trailing commas (for example, `[{"Color":"Red"},{"Color":"Green"},,]`). The <xref:System.Text.Json> default is to throw exceptions for trailing commas because the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification doesn't include them. For information about how to allow trailing commas, see [Allow comments and trailing commas](system-text-json-how-to.md#allow-comments-and-trailing-commas). There's no way to allow multiple trailing commas.

### Property names

During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` accepts property names surrounded by double quotes, single quotes, or without quotes. For example:

```json
{
  "name1": "value",
  'name2': "value",
  name3: "value"
}
```

> `System.Text.Json` only accepts names in double quotes because that format is required by the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification and is the only format considered valid JSON..

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`System.Text.Json` only accepts property names and string values in double quotes because that format is required by the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification and is the only format considered valid JSON.
```

### String values

During deserialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` accepts string values surrounded by double quotes or single quotes. For example:

```json
{
  "name1": "value",

>   "name2': 'value'

Reviewer: `"name2'` - was the mismatched quotes intentional? This is invalid now (even according to Newtonsof.Json)

```suggestion
  "name2": 'value'
```

Author: No, that was a typo.

}
```

> `System.Text.Json` only accepts strings in double quotes because that format is required by the [RFC 8259](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8259) specification. A value enclosed in single quotes results in a [JsonException](xref:System.Text.Json.JsonException) with the following message:

Reviewer: nit: There is a bit of redundant info here (at least conceptually). I would recommend merging the property names and string values section because there is quite a bit of overlap (they are all JSON strings). The difference in handling is just a subtle detail of Newtonsoft.Json so I don't think that warrants a separate section. Folks, imo, deal with JSON strings uniformly (as a concept), and hence there is little value in differentiating name vs value.

* It serializes them as JSON strings. 
* It accepts JSON numbers and numbers within quotes while deserializing.

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/LongToStringConverter.cs)]

Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-property) on individual `long` properties or by [adding the converter](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection) to the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.Converters> collection.

### Dictionary with non-string key

`Newtonsoft.Json` supports collections of type `Dictionary<TKey, TValue>`. The built-in support for dictionary collections in <xref:System.Text.Json> is limited to `Dictionary<string, TValue>`. That is, the key must be a string.

To support a dictionary with an integer or some other type as the key, create a converter like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#support-dictionary-with-non-string-key).

> ### Polymorphic deserialization

Reviewer: Should this be serialization (not deserialization):
```suggestion
### Polymorphic serialization
```

`Newtonsoft.Json` automatically does polymorphic serialization. For information about the limited polymorphic serialization capabilities of <xref:System.Text.Json> See [Serialize properties of derived classes](system-text-json-how-to.md#serialize-properties-of-derived-classes).

> The workaround described there is to define properties that may contain derived classes as type `Object`. If that isn't possible, another option is to create a converter with a `Write` method like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#support-polymorphic-deserialization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The workaround described there is to define properties that may contain derived classes as type `Object`. If that isn't possible, another option is to create a converter with a `Write` method for the whole inheritance type hierarchy like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#support-polymorphic-deserialization).
```

### IDisposable

`JsonDocument` builds an in-memory view of the data into a pooled buffer. Therefore, unlike `JObject` or `JArray` from `Newtonsoft.Json`, the `JsonDocument` type implements `IDisposable` and needs to be used inside a using block.

### Read-only

The <xref:System.Text.Json> DOM can't add, remove, or modify JSON elements. It's designed this way for performance and to reduce allocations for parsing common JSON payload sizes (that is, < 1 MB). If your scenario currently uses a writable/modifiable DOM, one of the following workarounds might be feasible:

* To build a `JsonDocument` from scratch (that is, without passing in an existing JSON payload to the `Parse` method), write the JSON text by using the `Utf8JsonWriter` and parse the output from that to make a new `JsonDocument`.
* To modify an existing `JsonDocument`, use it to write JSON text, making changes while you write, and parse the output from that to make a new `JsonDocument`.

> * To merge existing JSON documents, see [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/42466#issuecomment-570475853).

Reviewer: nit: The visibility/searchability of this might be too low.

Maybe add this:
```suggestion
* To merge existing JSON documents, equivalent to the `JObject.Merge`/`JContainer.Merge` APIs from `Newtonsoft.Json`, see [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/42466#issuecomment-570475853).
```

<xref:System.Text.Json> stores a boxed `JsonElement` for both primitive and complex values within the `System.Object` property or dictionary value. However, it treats `null` the same as `Newtonsoft.Json` and returns a null reference when the payload has the `null` JSON literal in it.

To implement type inference for `Object` properties, create a converter like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#deserialize-inferred-types-to-object-properties).

### Maximum depth

`Newtonsoft.Json` doesn't have a maximum depth limit by default. For <xref:System.Text.Json> there's a default limit  of 64, and it's configurable by setting (xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.MaxDepth?displayProperty=nameWithType).

### Stack type handling

In <xref:System.Text.Json>, properties of type <xref:System.Collections.Stack> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Stack%601> don't have the same value after making a round trip to and from JSON. The order of a stack's contents is reversed when it's serialized. A custom converter could be implemented to keep stack contents in the same order.

> ## Omit null-value properties

Reviewer: This should be h3.
```suggestion
### Omit null-value properties
```

### Read with multi-segment ReadOnlySequence

If your JSON input is a [ReadOnlySpan\<byte>](xref:System.ReadOnlySpan%601), each JSON element can be accessed from the `ValueSpan` property on the reader as you go through the read loop. However, if your input is a [ReadOnlySequence\<byte>](xref:System.Buffers.ReadOnlySequence%601) (which is the result of reading from a <xref:System.IO.Pipelines.PipeReader>), some JSON elements might straddle multiple segments of the `ReadOnlySequence<byte>` object. These elements would not be accessible from <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.ValueSpan%2A> in a contiguous memory block. Instead, whenever you have a multi-segment `ReadOnlySequence<byte>` as input, poll the <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.HasValueSequence%2A> property on the reader to figure out how to access the current JSON element. Here's a recommended pattern:

```csharp
while (reader.Read())
{
    switch (reader.TokenType)
    {
        // ...
        ReadOnlySpan<byte> jsonElement = reader.HasValueSequence ?
            reader.ValueSequence.ToArray() :
            reader.ValueSpan;
        // ...
    }
}
```

### Use ValueTextEquals for property name lookups

> Don't use <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.ValueSpan%2A> to do byte-by-byte comparisons by calling <xref:System.MemoryExtensions.SequenceEqual%2A> for property name lookups. Call <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.ValueTextEquals%2A> instead, because that method unescapes any characters that are escaped  in the JSON. Here's an example:

Reviewer: extra space
```suggestion
Don't use <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.ValueSpan%2A> to do byte-by-byte comparisons by calling <xref:System.MemoryExtensions.SequenceEqual%2A> for property name lookups. Call <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.ValueTextEquals%2A> instead, because that method unescapes any characters that are escaped in the JSON. Here's an example:
```

> [!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/Utf8ReaderFromFile.cs?highlight=10,37)]

Reviewer: Nice highlighting :)

That said, there is a lot of boilerplate code (class name, usings, commented out code, the reader loop, etc) that now shows up. Its probably fine, but a lot of doc real estate talking about migration is getting used up by it. Maybe we show a simplified snippet instead and highlight and the lines in that?

### Read null values into nullable value types

> `Newtonsoft.Json` provides APIs like `ReadAsBoolean`, which handle a `Null` `TokenType` for you by returning a `bool?`. The built-in `System.Text.Json` APIs return only non-nullable value types. For example, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.GetBoolean?displayProperty=nameWithType> returns a `bool`. It throws an exception if it finds `Null` in the JSON. The following examples show two ways to handle nulls, one by returning a nullable value type and one by returning the default value:

Reviewer: Add `Nullable<T>` (as an xref) to make it clear/more searchable).
```suggestion
`Newtonsoft.Json` provides APIs that return `Nullable<T>` like `ReadAsBoolean`, which handle a `Null` `TokenType` for you by returning a `bool?`. The built-in `System.Text.Json` APIs return only non-nullable value types. For example, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.GetBoolean?displayProperty=nameWithType> returns a `bool`. It throws an exception if it finds `Null` in the JSON. The following examples show two ways to handle nulls, one by returning a nullable value type and one by returning the default value:
```

```csharp
public bool? ReadAsNullableBoolean()
{
    _reader.Read();
    if (_reader.TokenType == JsonTokenType.Null)
    {
        return null;
    }
    if (_reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.True && _reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.False)
    {

>         throw CreateUnexpectedException(ref _reader, "a JSON true or false literal token");

Reviewer: Interesting. I might have missed it but what does `CreateUnexpectedException` do? Where is the code for this?

### Multi-targeting

If you need to continue to use `Newtonsoft.Json` for certain target frameworks, you can multi-target and have two implementations. However, this is not trivial and would require some `#ifdefs` and source duplication. One way to share as much code as possible is to create a wrapper around `Utf8JsonWriter` and `Newtonsoft` `JsonTextWriter`. This wrapper would unify the public surface area while isolating the behavioral differences. This lets you isolate the changes mainly to the construction of the type. This is the pattern that the [.NET Core installer](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/tree/81bf79fd9aa75305e55abe2f7e9ef3f60624a3a1/src/installer) follows:

* [UnifiedJsonWriter.JsonTextWriter.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/81bf79fd9aa75305e55abe2f7e9ef3f60624a3a1/src/installer/managed/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/UnifiedJsonWriter.JsonTextWriter.cs)
* [UnifiedJsonWriter.Utf8JsonWriter.cs](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/81bf79fd9aa75305e55abe2f7e9ef3f60624a3a1/src/installer/managed/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/UnifiedJsonWriter.Utf8JsonWriter.cs)

## Additional resources

> <!-- * [System.Text.Json roadmap](https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/blob/81bf79fd9aa75305e55abe2f7e9ef3f60624a3a1/src/System.Text.Json/roadmap/README.md)[Restore this when the roadmap is updated.]-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- * [System.Text.Json roadmap](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/81bf79fd9aa75305e55abe2f7e9ef3f60624a3a1/src/libraries/System.Text.Json/roadmap/README.md)[Restore this when the roadmap is updated.]-->
```

```csharp
public bool? ReadAsNullableBoolean()
{
    _reader.Read();
    if (_reader.TokenType == JsonTokenType.Null)
    {
        return null;
    }
    if (_reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.True && _reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.False)
    {
        throw new JsonException();
    }
    return _reader.GetBoolean();
}
```

```csharp
public bool ReadAsBoolean(bool defaultValue)
{
    _reader.Read();
    if (_reader.TokenType == JsonTokenType.Null)
    {
        return defaultValue;
    }
    if (_reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.True && _reader.TokenType != JsonTokenType.False)
    {
        throw new JsonException();
    }
    return _reader.GetBoolean();
}
```

### Multi-targeting

> If you need to continue to use `Newtonsoft.Json` for certain target frameworks, you can multi-target and have two implementations. However, this is not trivial and would require some `#ifdefs` and source duplication. One way to share as much code as possible is to create a `ref struct` wrapper around `Utf8JsonReader` and `Newtonsoft.Json` `JsonTextReader`. This wrapper would unify the public surface area while isolating the behavioral differences. This lets you isolate the changes mainly to the construction of the type, along with passing the new type around by reference. This is the pattern that the [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/) library follows:

Reviewer: Pick the specific version of the library in the link (3.1.0). Future versions may have different dependencies.
```suggestion
If you need to continue to use `Newtonsoft.Json` for certain target frameworks, you can multi-target and have two implementations. However, this is not trivial and would require some `#ifdefs` and source duplication. One way to share as much code as possible is to create a `ref struct` wrapper around `Utf8JsonReader` and `Newtonsoft.Json` `JsonTextReader`. This wrapper would unify the public surface area while isolating the behavioral differences. This lets you isolate the changes mainly to the construction of the type, along with passing the new type around by reference. This is the pattern that the [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/3.1.0/) library follows:
```

The following sections explain recommended programming patterns for using `Utf8JsonWriter`.

### Write with UTF-8 text

To achieve the best possible performance while using the `Utf8JsonWriter`, write JSON payloads already encoded as UTF-8 text rather than as UTF-16 strings. For example, if you're writing string literals, consider caching them as static byte arrays, and write those instead.

### WriteRawValue

The `Newtonsoft.Json` `WriteRawValue` method writes raw JSON where a value is expected. <xref:System.Text.Json> has no direct equivalent, but here's a workaround:

```csharp
using JsonDocument doc = JsonDocument.Parse(string);
doc.WriteTo(writer);
```

### Write null values

To write null values by using `Utf8JsonWriter`, call:

* <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter.WriteNull%2A> to write a key-value pair with null as the value.
* <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter.WriteNullValue%2A> to write null as an element of a JSON array.

For a string property, if the string is null, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter.WriteString%2A> and <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter.WriteStringValue%2A> are equivalent to `WriteNull` and `WriteNullValue`.

### Multi-targeting

> If you need to continue to use `Newtonsoft.Json` for certain target frameworks, you can multi-target and have two implementations. However, this is not trivial and would require some `#ifdefs` and source duplication. One way to share as much code as possible is to create a wrapper around `Utf8JsonWriter` and `Newtonsoft` `JsonTextWriter`. This wrapper would unify the public surface area while isolating the behavioral differences. This lets you isolate the changes mainly to the construction of the type. [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/) library follows:

Reviewer: Same here:
```suggestion
If you need to continue to use `Newtonsoft.Json` for certain target frameworks, you can multi-target and have two implementations. However, this is not trivial and would require some `#ifdefs` and source duplication. One way to share as much code as possible is to create a wrapper around `Utf8JsonWriter` and `Newtonsoft` `JsonTextWriter`. This wrapper would unify the public surface area while isolating the behavioral differences. This lets you isolate the changes mainly to the construction of the type. [Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyModel/3.1.0/) library follows:
```

* Don't pass in the options object when recursively calling `Serialize` or `Deserialize`. The options object contains the `Converters` collection. If you pass it in to `Serialize` or `Deserialize`, the converter will be used, making an infinite loop that results in a stack overflow exception.

## Scenarios that JsonSerializer currently doesn't support

Workarounds are possible for the following scenarios, but some of them would be relatively difficult to implement. Code samples for workarounds are not available for these scenarios.

### Types without built-in support

<xref:System.Text.Json> doesn't provide built-in support for the following types:

* <xref:System.Data.DataTable> and related types
* F# types, such as [discriminated unions](../../fsharp/language-reference/discriminated-unions.md), [record types](../../fsharp/language-reference/records.md), and [anonymous record types](../../fsharp/language-reference/anonymous-records.md).
* Collection types in the <xref:System.Collections.Specialized> namespace
* <xref:System.Dynamic.ExpandoObject>
* <xref:System.TimeZoneInfo>
* <xref:System.Numerics.BigInteger>
* <xref:System.TimeSpan>
* <xref:System.DBNull>

> * <xref:System.Type>

Reviewer: `ValueTuple<T1>`/`ValueTuple<T1, T2>`/etc. support seems to keep coming up. Add to the list:
https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/issues/1519#issuecomment-572751931

Register this custom converter by [using an attribute](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---jsonconverter-on-a-type) on the class or by [adding the converter](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#registration-sample---converters-collection) to the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.Converters> collection.

If you use a custom converter that follows the preceding sample:

* The `OnDeserializing` code doesn't have access to the new POCO instance. To manipulate the new POCO instance at the start of deserialization, put that code in the POCO constructor.
* Don't pass in the options object when recursively calling `Serialize` or `Deserialize`. The options object contains the `Converters` collection. If you pass it in to `Serialize` or `Deserialize`, the converter will be used, making an infinite loop that results in a stack overflow exception.

## Scenarios that JsonSerializer currently doesn't support

Workarounds are possible for the following scenarios, but some of them would be relatively difficult to implement. Code samples for workarounds are not available for these scenarios.

> If you implement a workaround for one of these scenarios and can share the code, select the button at the bottom of the page to send feedback for **This page**. That creates a GitHub issue and adds it to the issues that are listed at the bottom of the page.

Reviewer: nit: lowercase?
```suggestion
If you implement a workaround for one of these scenarios and can share the code, select the button at the bottom of the page to send feedback for **this page**. That creates a GitHub issue and adds it to the issues that are listed at the bottom of the page.
```

Author: I'm copying the casing as shown on the button.

```csharp
while (reader.Read())
{
    switch (reader.TokenType)
    {
        // ...
        ReadOnlySpan<byte> jsonElement = reader.HasValueSequence ?
            reader.ValueSequence.ToArray() :
            reader.ValueSpan;
        // ...
    }
}
```

### Use ValueTextEquals for property name lookups

Don't use <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.ValueSpan%2A> to do byte-by-byte comparisons by calling <xref:System.MemoryExtensions.SequenceEqual%2A> for property name lookups. Call <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.ValueTextEquals%2A> instead, because that method unescapes any characters that are escaped in the JSON. Here's an example that shows how to search for a property that is named "name":

> [!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/ValueTextEqualsExample.cs?name=SnippetDefineUtf8Var)]

Reviewer: Hopefully this is just a point-in-time issue:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/6527137/72125596-fd99ba80-331d-11ea-9033-b60cfc652663.png)

Author: This is another glitch resulting from keeping snippets and docs in separate repos, in this case I hadn't yet merged the samples repo PR that added these snippets.  It's fixed now.

## Utf8JsonWriter compared to JsonTextWriter

<xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonWriter?displayProperty=fullName> is a high-performance way to write UTF-8 encoded JSON text from common .NET types like `String`, `Int32`, and `DateTime`. The writer is a low-level type that can be used to build custom serializers.

The following sections explain recommended programming patterns for using `Utf8JsonWriter`.

### Write with UTF-8 text

To achieve the best possible performance while using the `Utf8JsonWriter`, write JSON payloads already encoded as UTF-8 text rather than as UTF-16 strings. For example, if you're writing string literals, consider caching them as static byte arrays, and write those instead.

### Write raw values

The `Newtonsoft.Json` `WriteRawValue` method writes raw JSON where a value is expected. <xref:System.Text.Json> has no direct equivalent, but here's a workaround:

```csharp
using JsonDocument doc = JsonDocument.Parse(string);
doc.WriteTo(writer);
```

### Customize character escaping

> The [StringEscapeHandling](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_StringEscapeHandling.htm) setting of `JsonTextWriter` offers options to escape all non-ASCII characters **or** HTML characters. By default, Utf8JsonWriter escapes all non-ASCII **and** HTML characters. This escaping is done for defense-in-depth security reasons. To specify a different escaping policy, create a <xref:System.Text.Encodings.Web.JavaScriptEncoder> and set <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonWriterOptions.Encoder?displayProperty=nameWithType>. For more information, see [Customize character encoding](system-text-json-how-to.md#customize-character-encoding).

Reviewer: Add back-ticks to `Utf8JsonWriter`

```suggestion
The [StringEscapeHandling](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_StringEscapeHandling.htm) setting of `JsonTextWriter` offers options to escape all non-ASCII characters **or** HTML characters. By default, `Utf8JsonWriter` escapes all non-ASCII **and** HTML characters. This escaping is done for defense-in-depth security reasons. To specify a different escaping policy, create a <xref:System.Text.Encodings.Web.JavaScriptEncoder> and set <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonWriterOptions.Encoder?displayProperty=nameWithType>. For more information, see [Customize character encoding](system-text-json-how-to.md#customize-character-encoding).
```

### Customize JSON format

`JsonTextWriter` includes the following settings, for which `Utf8JsonWriter` has no equivalent:

> * [Indentation](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_Indentation.htm) - How many characters to indent. `Utf8JsonWriter` always does 2-character indentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Indentation](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_Indentation.htm) - Specifies how many characters to indent. `Utf8JsonWriter` always does 2-character indentation.
```

> [IndentChar](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_IndentChar.htm) - What character to use for indentation.  `Utf8JsonWriter` always uses whitespace.

Reviewer: The list is not formatted correctly. Same below.
```suggestion
* [IndentChar](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_IndentChar.htm) - Specifies which character to use for indentation.  `Utf8JsonWriter` always uses whitespace.
```

> [QuoteChar](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_QuoteChar.htm) - What character to use to surround string values.  `Utf8JsonWriter` always uses double quotes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [QuoteChar](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_QuoteChar.htm) - Specifies which character to use to surround string values.  `Utf8JsonWriter` always uses double quotes.
```

> [QuoteName](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_QuoteName.htm) - Whether or not to surround property names with quotes.  `Utf8JsonWriter` always uses quotes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [QuoteName](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonTextWriter_QuoteName.htm) - Specified whether or not to surround property names with quotes.  `Utf8JsonWriter` always surrounds them with double quotes.
```

```

### Converter registration precedence

The `Newtonsoft.Json` registration precedence for custom converters is as follows:

* Attribute on property
* Attribute on type
* [Converters](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/P_Newtonsoft_Json_JsonSerializerSettings_Converters.htm) collection

This order means that a custom converter in the `Converters` collection is overridden by a converter that is registered by applying an attribute at the type level. Both of those registrations are overridden by an attribute at the property level.

The <xref:System.Text.Json> registration precedence for custom converters is different:

* Attribute on property
* <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.Converters> collection
* Attribute on type

The difference here is that a custom converter in the `Converters` collection overrides an attribute at the type level. The intention behind this order of precedence is to make run-time changes override design-time choices. There's no way to change the precedence.

For more information about custom converter registration, see [Register a custom converter](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#register-a-custom-converter).

### Character escaping

> During serialization, `Newtonsoft.Json` is relatively permissive about letting characters through without escaping them. (That is, it doesn't replace them with `\uxxxx` where `xxxx` is the character's code point.) Where it does escape them, it does so by emitting a `\` before the character (for example, `"` becomes `\"`). <xref:System.Text.Json> escapes more characters by default to provide defense-in-depth protections against cross-site scripting (XSS) or information-disclosure attacks and does so by using the six-character sequence. `System.Text.Json` escapes all non-ASCII characters by default, so you don't need to do anything if you're using `StringEscapeHandling.EscapeNonAscii` in `Newtonsoft.Json`. `System.Text.Json` also escapes HTML-sensitive characters, by default. For information about how to override the default `System.Text.Json` behavior, see [Customize character encoding](system-text-json-how-to.md#customize-character-encoding).

Author: When what's in the parens can function as a complete sentence and isn't surrounded by a sentence, it's can be treated within the parens as a separate sentence, in which case the preceding sentence is terminated by a period before the opening paren. In this case, especially due to its length, that seemed the best choice.  Another option that would work in this case is to remove the parens.

* Returns a `JObject` or `JArray` for complex values in the JSON payload. *Complex values* are collections of JSON key-value pairs within braces (`{}`) or lists of values within brackets (`[]`). The properties and values within the braces or brackets can have additional properties or values.
* Returns a null reference when the payload has the `null` JSON literal.

<xref:System.Text.Json> stores a boxed `JsonElement` for both primitive and complex values within the `System.Object` property or dictionary value. However, it treats `null` the same as `Newtonsoft.Json` and returns a null reference when the payload has the `null` JSON literal in it.

To implement type inference for `object` properties, create a converter like the example in [How to write custom converters](system-text-json-converters-how-to.md#deserialize-inferred-types-to-object-properties).

### Maximum depth

`Newtonsoft.Json` doesn't have a maximum depth limit by default. For <xref:System.Text.Json> there's a default limit  of 64, and it's configurable by setting <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.MaxDepth?displayProperty=nameWithType>.

### Stack type handling

> In <xref:System.Text.Json>, properties of type <xref:System.Collections.Stack> and <xref:System.Collections.Generic.Stack%601> don't have the same value after making a round trip to and from JSON. The order of a stack's contents is reversed when it's serialized. A custom converter could be implemented to keep stack contents in the same order.

Reviewer: I just learned the `ImmutableStack<T>` and any user-defined type that implements the `IImmutableStack<T>` interface also has this same issue (there is only one implementation of that interface in the framework and that is the generic immutable stack):
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.collections.immutable.immutablestack-1?view=netcore-3.1
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/system.collections.immutable.iimmutablestack-1?view=netcore-3.1

Also, any user-defined type that derives from `Stack`/`Stack<T>`.

cc @layomia

```csharp
while (reader.Read())
{
    switch (reader.TokenType)
    {
        // ...
        ReadOnlySpan<byte> jsonElement = reader.HasValueSequence ?
            reader.ValueSequence.ToArray() :
            reader.ValueSpan;
        // ...
    }
}
```

### Use ValueTextEquals for property name lookups

Don't use <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.ValueSpan%2A> to do byte-by-byte comparisons by calling <xref:System.MemoryExtensions.SequenceEqual%2A> for property name lookups. Call <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.ValueTextEquals%2A> instead, because that method unescapes any characters that are escaped in the JSON. Here's an example that shows how to search for a property that is named "name":

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/ValueTextEqualsExample.cs?name=SnippetDefineUtf8Var)]

[!code-csharp[](~/samples/snippets/core/system-text-json/csharp/ValueTextEqualsExample.cs?name=SnippetUseUtf8Var&highlight=11)]

### Read null values into nullable value types

> `Newtonsoft.Json` provides APIs that return <xref:System.Nullable%601>, such as `ReadAsBoolean`, which handles a `Null` `TokenType` for you by returning a `bool?`. The built-in `System.Text.Json` APIs return only non-nullable value types. For example, <xref:System.Text.Json.Utf8JsonReader.GetBoolean%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> returns a `bool`. It throws an exception if it finds `Null` in the JSON. The following examples show two ways to handle nulls, one by returning a nullable value type and one by returning the default value:

Author: For consistency -- all my other method links have %2A.  The difference in rendering is you get `GetBoolean()` without the %2A and `GetBoolean` (no parens) with it.

### TraceWriter

`Newtonsoft.Json` lets you debug by using a `TraceWriter` to view logs that are generated by serialization or deserialization. <xref:System.Text.Json> doesn't do logging.

## JsonDocument and JsonElement compared to JToken (like JObject, JArray)

<xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument?displayProperty=fullName> provides the ability to parse and build a **read-only** Document Object Model (DOM) from existing JSON payloads. The DOM provides random access to data in a JSON payload. The JSON elements that compose the payload can be accessed via the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement> type. The `JsonElement` type provides APIs to convert JSON text to common .NET types. `JsonDocument` exposes a <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument.RootElement> property.

### JsonDocument is IDisposable

`JsonDocument` builds an in-memory view of the data into a pooled buffer. Therefore, unlike `JObject` or `JArray` from `Newtonsoft.Json`, the `JsonDocument` type implements `IDisposable` and needs to be used inside a using block. 

> Only return a `JsonDocument` from your API if you want to transfer lifetime ownership and dispose responsibility to the caller. In most scenarios, that isn't necessary. If the caller needs to work with the entire JSON document, return the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement.Clone%2A> of the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonDocument.RootElement%2A>, which is a <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement>. If the caller needs to work with a particular element within the JSON document, return the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement.Clone%2A> of that <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonElement>.

Reviewer: The way this is written is a lot clearer now :)

However, we should add some more info here for the other scenario. If the API accepts a `JsonElement` and is returning a subset of that `JsonElement`, then you don't need to call `Clone`. That is because the original lifetime owner of the JsonDocument which is what this `JsonElement` is attached to still owns the returned `JsonElement` as well anyway. Explaining that scenario would be good. The way it is written currently, folks might call `Clone` unnecessarily and that is expensive.

```C#
// This is perfectly fine to do because you are returning a subset of the input JsonElement
public JsonElement ReturnFileName(JsonElement source)
{
   return source.GetProperty("fileName");
}

// This is technically OK to do but calling Clone here is unnecessary and slow
public JsonElement ReturnFileName(JsonElement source)
{
   return source.GetProperty("fileName").Clone();
}
```

Here's an example that requires you to make a `Clone`:

```csharp
public JsonElement LookAndLoad(JsonElement source)
{
    string json = File.ReadAllText(source.GetProperty("fileName").GetString());
   
    using (JsonDocument doc = JsonDocument.Parse(json))
    {
        return doc.RootElement.Clone();
    }
}
```

The preceding code expects a `JsonElement` that contains a `fileName` property. It opens the JSON file and creates a `JsonDocument`. The method assumes that the caller wants to work with the entire document, so it returns the `Clone` of the `RootElement`. 

> If you receive a `JsonElement` that isn't owned by a `JsonDocument` and return a sub-element, it's not necessary to return a `Clone` of the sub-element. For example:

Reviewer: That isn't accurate. All `JsonElement` must by tied to a `JsonDocument` in some way. `Clone` effectively just makes it so that the `JsonDocument` that holds the `JsonElement` doesn't use the array pool and hence doesn't need to be disposed.

And you don't have to call `Clone` even in the case that `JsonDocument` is still disposable/uses the array pool **as long as you are returning a sub-element of the passed-in JsonElement**. The owner of the passed-in JsonElement continues to own the returned JsonElement. Essentially the "ownership" question is not relevant to the API in this scenario.

```suggestion
If you receive a `JsonElement` and are returning a sub-element, it's not necessary to return a `Clone` of the sub-element. The caller is responsible of keeping alive the `JsonDocument` that holds the passed-in `JsonElement`. For example:
```
